1 Corinthians Chapter 7

Lessons relating to marriage and celibacy. Virginity is preferable to a married state.

7:1. Now concerning the things whereof you wrote to me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.

7:2. But for fear of fornication, let every man have his own wife: and let every woman have her own husband.

7:3. Let the husband render the debt to his wife: and the wife also in like manner to the husband.

7:4. The wife hath not power of her own body: but the husband.  And in like manner the husband also hath not power of his own body: but the wife.

7:5. Defraud not one another, except, perhaps, by consent, for a time, that you may give yourselves to prayer: and return together again, lest Satan tempt you for your incontinency.

7:6. But I speak this by indulgence, not by commandment.

7:7. For I would that all men were even as myself. But every one hath his proper gift from God: one after this manner, and another after that.

7:8. But I say to the unmarried and to the widows: It is good for them if they so continue, even as I.

7:9. But if they do not contain themselves, let them marry. For it is better to marry than to be burnt.

7:10. But to them that are married, not I, but the Lord, commandeth that the wife depart not from her husband.

7:11. And if she depart, that she remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. And let not the husband put away his wife.

7:12. For to the rest I speak, not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not and she consent to dwell with him: let him not put her away.

7:13. And if any woman hath a husband that believeth not and he consent to dwell with her: let her not put away her husband.

7:14. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife: and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the believing husband. Otherwise your children should be unclean: but now they are holy.

7:15. But if the unbeliever depart, let him depart. For a brother or sister is not under servitude in such cases. But God hath called us in peace.

7:16. For how knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife?

7:17. But as the Lord hath distributed to every one, as God hath called every one: so let him walk. And so in all churches I teach.

7:18. Is any man called, being circumcised? Let him not procure uncircumcision. Is any man called in uncircumcision? Let him not be circumcised.

7:19. Circumcision is nothing and uncircumcision is nothing: but the observance of the commandments of God.

7:20. Let every man abide in the same calling in which he was called.

7:21. Wast thou called, being a bondman? Care not for it: but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather.

7:22. For he that is called in the Lord, being a bondman, is the freeman of the Lord. Likewise he that is called, being free, is the bondman of Christ.

7:23. You are bought with a price: be not made the bondslaves of men.

7:24. Brethren, let every man, wherein he was called, therein abide with God.

7:25. Now, concerning virgins, I have no commandment of the Lord: but I give counsel, as having obtained mercy of the Lord, to be faithful.

7:26. I think therefore that this is good for the present necessity: that it is good for a man so to be.

7:27. Art thou bound to a wife? Seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? Seek not a wife.

7:28. But if thou take a wife, thou hast not sinned. And if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned: nevertheless, such shall have tribulation of the flesh. But I spare you.

7:29. This therefore I say, brethren: The time is short. It remaineth, that they also who have wives be as if they had none:

7:30. And they that weep, as though they wept not: and they that rejoice, as if they rejoiced not: and they that buy as if they possessed not:

7:31. And they that use this world, as if they used it not. For the fashion of this world passeth away.

7:32. But I would have you to be without solicitude. He that is without a wife is solicitous for the things that belong to the Lord: how he may please God.

7:33. But he that is with a wife is solicitous for the things of the world: how he may please his wife. And he is divided.

7:34. And the unmarried woman and the virgin thinketh on the things of the Lord: that she may be holy both in body and in spirit. But she that is married thinketh on the things of the world: how she may please her husband.

7:35. And this I speak for your profit, not to cast a snare upon you, but for that which is decent and which may give you power to attend upon the Lord, without impediment.

7:36. But if any man think that he seemeth dishonoured with regard to his virgin, for that she is above the age, and it must so be: let him do what he will. He sinneth not if she marry.

7:37. For he that hath determined, being steadfast in his heart, having no necessity, but having power of his own will: and hath judged this in his heart, to keep his virgin, doth well.

7:38. Therefore both he that giveth his virgin in marriage doth well: and he that giveth her not doth better.

7:39. A woman is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth: but if her husband die, she is at liberty. Let her marry to whom she will: only in the Lord.

7:40. But more blessed shall she be, if she so remain, according to my counsel. And I think that I also have the spirit of God.
