1 Paralipomenon Chapter 3

The genealogy of the house of David.

3:1. Now these were the sons of David that were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon of Achinoam the Jezrahelitess, the second Daniel of Abigail the Carmelitess.

3:2. The third Absalom the son of Maacha the daughter of Tolmai king of Gessur, the fourth Adonias the son of Aggith,

3:3. The fifth Saphatias of Abital, the sixth Jethrahem of Egla his wife.

3:4. So six sons were born to him in Hebron, where he reigned seven years and six months. And in Jerusalem he reigned three and thirty years.

3:5. And these sons were born to him in Jerusalem: Simmaa, and Sobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four of Bethsabee the daughter of Ammiel.

3:6. Jebaar also and Elisama,

3:7. And Eliphaleth, and Noge, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

3:8. And Elisama, and Eliada, and Elipheleth, nine:

3:9. All these the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines: and they had a sister Thamar.

3:10. And Solomon's son was Roboam: whose son Abia begot Asa. And his son was Josaphat,

3:11. The father of Joram: and Joram begot Ochozias, of whom was born Joas:

3:12. And his son Amasias begot Azarias. And Joathan the son of Azarias

3:13. Begot Achaz, the father of Ezechias, of whom was born Manasses.

3:14. And Manasses begot Amon the father of Josias.

3:15. And the sons of Josias were, the firstborn Johanan, the second Joakim, the third Sedecias, the fourth Sellum.

3:16. Of Joakim was born Jechonias, and Sedecias.

3:17. The sons of Jechonias were Asir, Salathiel,

3:18. Melchiram, Phadaia, Senneser and Jecemia, Sama, and Nadabia.

3:19. Of Phadaia were born Zorobabel and Semei. Zorobabel begot Mosollam, Hananias, and Salomith their sister:

3:20. Hasaba also, and Ohol, and Barachias, and Hasadias, Josabhesed, five.

3:21. And the son of Hananias was Phaltias the father of Jeseias, whose son was Raphaia. And his son was Arnan, of whom was born Obdia, whose son was Sechenias.

3:22. The son of Sechenias was Semeia, whose sons were Hattus, and Jegaal, and Baria, and Naaria, and Saphat, six in number.

3:23. The sons of Naaria, Elioenai, and Ezechias, and Ezricam, three.

3:24. The sons of Elioenai, Oduia, and Eliasub, and Pheleia, and Accub, and Johanan, and Dalaia, and Anani, seven.
