1 Peter Chapter 2

We are to lay aside all guile and go to Christ the living stone, and, as being now his people, walk worthily of him, with submission to superiors and patience under sufferings.

2:1. Wherefore laying away all malice and all guile and dissimulations and envies and all detractions,

2:2. As newborn babes, desire the rational milk without guile, that thereby you may grow unto salvation:

2:3. If so be you have tasted that the Lord is sweet.

2:4. Unto whom coming, as to a living stone, rejected indeed by men but chosen and made honourable by God:

2:5. Be you also as living stones built up, a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.

2:6. Wherefore it is said in the scripture: Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious. And he that shall believe in him shall not be confounded.

2:7. To you therefore that believe, he is honour: but to them that believe not, the stone which the builders rejected, the same is made the head of the corner:

2:8. And a stone of stumbling and a rock of scandal, to them who stumble at the word, neither do believe, whereunto also they are set.

2:9. But you are a chosen generation, a kingly priesthood, a holy nation, a purchased people: that you may declare his virtues, who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light:

2:10. Who in times past were not a people: but are now the people of God. Who had not obtained mercy: but now have obtained mercy.

2:11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, to refrain yourselves from carnal desires which war against the soul,

2:12. Having your conversation good among the Gentiles: that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by the good works which they shall behold in you, glorify God in the day of visitation.

2:13. Be ye subject therefore to every human creature for God's sake: whether it be to the king as excelling,

2:14. Or to governors as sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of the good.

2:15. For so is the will of God, that by doing well you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:

2:16. As free and not as making liberty a cloak for malice, but as the servants of God.

2:17. Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.

2:18. Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear, not only to the good and gentle but also to the froward.

2:19. For this is thankworthy: if, for conscience towards God, a man endure sorrows, suffering wrongfully.

2:20. For what glory is it, if, committing sin and being buffeted for it, you endure? But if doing well you suffer patiently: this is thankworthy before God.

2:21. For unto this are you called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving you an example that you should follow his steps.

2:22. Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth.

2:23. Who, when he was reviled, did not revile: when he suffered, he threatened not, but delivered himself to him that judged him unjustly.

2:24. Who his own self bore our sins in his body upon the tree: that we, being dead to sins, should live to justice: by whose stripes you were healed.

2:25. For you were as sheep going astray: but you are now converted to the shepherd and bishop of your souls.
