1 Thessalonians Chapter 5

The day of the Lord shall come when least expected. Exhortations to several duties.

5:1. But of the times and moments, brethren, you need not, that we should write to you:

5:2. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord shall so come as a thief in the night.

5:3. For when they shall say: Peace and security; then shall sudden destruction come upon them, as the pains upon her that is with child, and they shall not escape.

5:4. But you, brethren, are not in darkness, that the day should overtake you as a thief.

5:5. For all you are the children of light and children of the day: we are not of the night nor of darkness.

5:6. Therefore, let us not sleep, as others do: but let us watch, and be sober.

5:7. For they that sleep, sleep in the night; and they that are drunk, are drunk in the night.

5:8. But let us, who are of the day, be sober, having on the breast plate of faith and charity and, for a helmet, the hope of salvation.

5:9. For God hath not appointed us unto wrath: but unto the purchasing of salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,

5:10. Who died for us: that, whether we watch or sleep, we may live together with him.

5:11. For which cause comfort one another and edify one another, as you also do.

5:12. And we beseech you, brethren, to know them who labour among you and are over you in the Lord and admonish you;

5:13. That you esteem them more abundantly in charity, for their work's sake. Have peace with them.

5:14. And we beseech you, brethren, rebuke the unquiet: comfort the feeble minded: support the weak: be patient towards all men.

5:15. See that none render evil for evil to any man: but ever follow that which is good towards each other and towards all men.

5:16. Always rejoice.

5:17. Pray without ceasing.

5:18. In all things give thanks for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you all.

5:19. Extinguish not the spirit.

5:20. Despise not prophecies.

5:21. But prove all things: hold fast that which is good.

5:22. From all appearance of evil refrain yourselves.

5:23. And may the God of peace himself sanctify you in all things: that your whole spirit and soul and body may be preserved blameless in the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

5:24. He is faithful who hath called you, who also will do it.

5:25. Brethren, pray for us.

5:26. Salute all the brethren with a holy kiss.

5:27. I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read to all the holy brethren.

5:28. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
