1 Timothy Chapter 5

He gives him lessons concerning widows, and how he is to behave to his clergy.

5:1. An ancient man rebuke not, but entreat him as a father: young men, as brethren:

5:2. Old women, as mothers: young women, as sisters, in all chastity.

5:3. Honour widows that are widows indeed.

5:4. But if any widow have children or grandchildren, let her learn first to govern her own house and to make a return of duty to her parents; for this is acceptable before God.

5:5. But she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, let her trust in God and continue in supplications and prayers night and day.

5:6. For she that liveth in pleasures is dead while she is living.

5:7. And this give in charge, that they may be blameless.

5:8. But if any man have not care of his own and especially of those of his house, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel.

5:9. Let a widow be chosen of no less than threescore years of age, who hath been the wife of one husband.

5:11. But the younger widows avoid. For when they have grown wanton in Christ, they will marry:

5:12. Having damnation, because they have made void their first faith.

5:13. And withal being idle they learn to go about from house to house: and are not only idle, but tattlers also and busy bodies, speaking things which they ought not.

5:14. I will, therefore, that the younger should marry, bear children, be mistresses of families, give no occasion to the adversary to speak evil.

5:15. For some are already turned aside after Satan.

5:16. If any of the faithful have widows, let him minister to them, and let not the church be charged: that there may be sufficient for them that are widows indeed.

5:17. Let the priests that rule well be esteemed worthy of double honour: especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

5:18. For the scripture saith: Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn: and, The labourer is worthy of his reward.

5:19. Against a priest receive not an accusation, but under two or three witnesses.

5:20. Them that sin reprove before all that the rest also may have fear.

5:21. I charge thee, before God and Christ Jesus and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without prejudice, doing nothing by declining to either side.

5:22. Impose not hands lightly upon any man, neither be partaker of other men's sins. Keep thyself chaste.

5:23. Do not still drink water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thy frequent infirmities.

5:24. Some men's sins are manifest, going before to judgment: and some men they follow after.

5:25. In like manner also good deeds are manifest: and they that are otherwise cannot be hid.
