2 Corinthians Chapter 9

A further exhortation to almsgiving. The fruits of it.

9:1. For concerning the ministry that is done towards the saints, it is superfluous for me to write unto you.

9:2. For I know your forward mind: for which I boast of you to the Macedonians, that Achaia also is ready from the year past. And your emulation hath provoked very many.

9:3. Now I have sent the brethren, that the thing which we boast of concerning you be not made void in this behalf, that (as I have said) you may be ready:

9:4. Lest, when the Macedonians shall come with me and find you unprepared, we (not to say ye) should be ashamed in this matter.

9:5. Therefore I thought it necessary to desire the brethren that they would go to you before and prepare this blessing before promised, to be ready, so as a blessing, not as covetousness.

9:6. Now this I say: He who soweth sparingly shall also reap sparingly: and he who soweth in blessings shall also reap blessings.

9:7. Every one as he hath determined in his heart, not with sadness or of necessity: for God loveth a cheerful giver.

9:8. And God is able to make all grace abound in you: that ye always, having all sufficiently in all things, may abound to every good work,

9:9. As it is written: He hath dispersed abroad, he hath given to the poor: his justice remaineth for ever.

9:10. And he that ministereth seed to the sower will both give you bread to eat and will multiply your seed and increase the growth of the fruits of your justice:

9:11. That being enriched in all things, you may abound unto all simplicity which worketh through us thanksgiving to God.

9:12. Because the administration of this office doth not only supply the want of the saints, but aboundeth also by many thanksgivings in the Lord.

9:13. By the proof of this ministry, glorifying God for the obedience of your confession unto the gospel of Christ and for the simplicity of your communicating unto them and unto all.

9:14. And in their praying for you, being desirous of you, because of the excellent grace of God in you.

9:15. Thanks be to God for his unspeakable gift.
