2 Timothy Chapter 4

His charge to Timothy. He tells him of his approaching death and desires him to come to him.

4:1. I charge thee, before God and Jesus Christ, who shall judge the living and the dead, by his coming and his kingdom:

4:2. Preach the word: be instant in season, out of season: reprove, entreat, rebuke in all patience and doctrine.

4:3. For there shall be a time when they will not endure sound doctrine but, according to their own desires, they will heap to themselves teachers having itching ears:

4:4. And will indeed turn away their hearing from the truth, but will be turned unto fables.

4:5. But be thou vigilant, labour in all things, do the work of an evangelist, fulfil thy ministry. Be sober.

4:6. For I am even now ready to be sacrificed: and the time of my dissolution is at hand.

4:7. I have fought a good fight: I have finished my course: I have kept the faith.

4:8. As to the rest, there is laid up for me a crown of justice which the Lord the just judge will render to me in that day: and not only to me, but to them also that love his coming. Make haste to come to me quickly.

4:9. For Demas hath left me, loving this world, and is gone to Thessalonica:

4:10. Crescens into Galatia, Titus into Dalmatia.

4:11. Only Luke is with me. Take Mark and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry.

4:12. But Tychicus I have sent to Ephesus.

4:13. The cloak that I left at Troas, with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee: and the books, especially the parchments.

4:14. Alexander the coppersmith hath done me much evil: the Lord will reward him according to his works:

4:15. Whom do thou also avoid: for he hath greatly withstood our words.

4:16. At my first answer, no man stood with me: but all forsook me.  May it not be laid to their charge!

4:17. But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, that by me the preaching may be accomplished and that all the Gentiles may hear.  And I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.

4:18. The Lord hath delivered me from every evil work and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom. To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

4:19. Salute Prisca, and Aquila and the household of Onesiphorus.

4:20. Erastus remained at Corinth. And Trophimus I left sick at Miletus.

4:21. Make haste to come before winter. Eubulus and Pudens and Linus and Claudia and all the brethren, salute thee.

4:22. The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.
