Acts Chapter 24

Paul defends his innocence before Felix the governor. He preaches the faith to him.

24:1. And after five days, the high priest, Ananias, came down with some ancients and one Tertullus, an orator, who went to the governor against Paul.

24:2. And Paul being called for, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying: Whereas, through thee we live in much peace and many things are rectified by thy providence,

24:3. We accept it always and in all places, most excellent Felix, with all thanksgiving.

24:4. But that I be no further tedious to thee, I desire thee of thy clemency to hear us in a few words.

24:5. We have found this to be a pestilent man and raising seditions among all the Jews throughout the world: and author of the sedition of the sect of the Nazarenes.

24:6. Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom, we having apprehended, would also have judged according to our law.

24:7. But Lysias the tribune, coming upon us with great violence, took him away out of our hands;

24:8. Commanding his accusers to come to thee. Of whom thou mayest thyself, by examination, have knowledge of all these things whereof we accuse him.

24:9. And the Jews also added and said that these things were so.

24:10. Then Paul answered (the governor making a sign to him to speak): Knowing that for many years thou hast been judge over this nation, I will with good courage answer for myself.

24:11. For thou mayest understand that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to adore in Jerusalem:

24:12. And neither in the temple did they find me disputing with any man or causing any concourse of the people: neither in the synagogues, nor in the city.

24:13. Neither can they prove unto thee the things whereof they now accuse me.

24:14. But this I confess to thee that according to the way which they call a heresy, so do I serve the Father and my God, believing all things which are written in the law and the prophets:

24:15. Having hope in God, which these also themselves look for, that there shall be a resurrection of the just and unjust.

24:16. And herein do I endeavour to have always a conscience without offence, towards God and towards men.

24:17. Now after many years, I came to bring alms to my nation and offerings and vows.

24:18. In which I was found purified in the temple: neither with multitude nor with tumult.

24:19. But certain Jews of Asia, who ought to be present before thee and to accuse, if they had anything against me:

24:20. Or let these men themselves say if they found in me any iniquity, when standing before the council,

24:21. Except it be for this one voice only that I cried, standing among them: Concerning the resurrection of the dead am I judged this day by you.

24:22. And Felix put them off, having most certain knowledge of this way, saying: When Lysias the tribune shall come down, I will hear you.

24:23. And he commanded a centurion to keep him: and that he should be easy and that he should not prohibit any of his friends to minister unto him.

24:24. And after some days, Felix, coming with Drusilla his wife, who was a Jew, sent for Paul and heard of him the faith that is in Christ Jesus.

24:25. And as he treated of justice and chastity and of the judgment to come, Felix, being terrified, answered: For this time, go thy way: but when I have a convenient time, I will send for thee.

24:26. Hoping also withal that money should be given him by Paul: for which cause also oftentimes sending for him, he spoke with him.

24:27. But when two years were ended, Felix had for successor Portius Festus. And Felix being willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.
