Colossians Chapter 4

He recommends constant prayer and wisdom. Various salutations.

4:1. Masters, do to your servants that which is just and equal: knowing that you also have a master in heaven.

4:2. Be instant in prayer: watching in it with thanksgiving.

4:3. Praying withal for us also, that God may open unto us a door of speech to speak the mystery of Christ (for which also I am bound):

4:4. That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.

4:5. Walk with wisdom towards them that are without, redeeming the time.

4:6. Let your speech be always in grace seasoned with salt: that you may know how you ought to answer every man.

4:7. All the things that concern me, Tychicus, our dearest brother and faithful minister and fellow servant in the Lord, will make known to you.

4:8. What I have sent to you for this same purpose, that he may know the things that concern you and comfort your hearts:

4:9. With Onesimus, a most beloved and faithful brother, who is one of you. All things that are done here, they shall make known to you.

4:10. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, saluteth you: and Mark, the cousin german of Barnabas, touching whom you have received commandments. If he come unto you, receive him.

4:11. And Jesus that is called Justus: who are of the circumcision. These only are my helpers, in the kingdom of God: who have been a comfort to me.

4:12. Epaphras saluteth you, who is one of you, a servant of Christ Jesus, who is always solicitous for you in prayers, that you may stand perfect and full in all the will of God.

4:13. For I bear him testimony that he hath much labour for you and for them that are at Laodicea and them at Hierapolis.

4:14. Luke, the most dear physician, saluteth you: and Demas.

4:15. Salute the brethren who are at Laodicea: and Nymphas and the church that is in his house.

4:16. And when this epistle shall have been read with you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans: and that you read that which is of the Laodiceans.

4:17. And say to Archippus: Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.

4:18. The salutation of Paul with my own hand. Be mindful of my bands. Grace be with you. Amen.
