Ecclesiasticus Chapter 4

An exhortation to works of mercy, and to the love of wisdom.

4:1. Son, defraud not the poor of alms, and turn not away thy eyes from the poor.

4:2. Despise not the hungry soul: and provoke not the poor in his want.

4:3. Afflict not the heart of the needy, and defer not to gibe to him that is in distress.

4:4. Reject not the petition of the afflicted: and turn not away thy face from the needy.

4:5. Turn not away thy eyes from the poor for fear of anger: and leave not to them that ask of thee to curse thee behind thy back.

4:6. For the prayer of him that curseth thee in the bitterness of his soul, shall be heard, for he that made him will hear him.

4:7. Make thyself affable to the congregation of the poor, and humble thy soul to the ancient, and bow thy head to a great man.

4:8. Bow down thy ear cheerfully to the poor, and pay what thou owest, and answer him peaceable words with mildness.

4:9. Deliver him that suffereth wrong out of the hand of the proud: and be not fainthearted in thy soul.

4:10. In judging be merciful to the fatherless as a father, and as a husband to their mother.

4:11. And thou shalt be as the obedient son of the most High, and he will have mercy on thee more than a mother.

4:12. Wisdom inspireth life into her children, and protecteth them that seek after her, and will go before them in the way of justice.

4:13. And he that loveth her, loveth life: and they that watch for her, shall embrace her sweetness.

4:14. They that hold her fast, shall inherit life: and whithersoever she entereth, God will give a blessing.

4:15. They that serve her, shall be servants to the holy one: and God loveth them that love her.

4:16. He that hearkeneth to her, shall judge nations: and he that looketh upon her, shall remain secure.

4:17. If he trust to her, he shall inherit her, and his generation shall be in assurance.

4:18. For she walketh with him in temptation, and at the first she chooseth him.

4:19. She will bring upon him fear and dread and trial: and she will scourge him with the affliction of her discipline, till she try him by her laws, and trust his soul.

4:20. Then she will strengthen him, and make a straight way to him, and give him joy,

4:21. And will disclose her secrets to him, and will heap upon him treasures of knowledge and understanding of justice.

4:22. But if he go astray, she will forsake him, and deliver him into the hands of his enemy.

4:23. Son, observe the time, and fly from evil.

4:24. For thy soul be not ashamed to say the truth.

4:25. For there is a shame that bringeth sin, and there is a shame that bringeth glory and grace.

4:26. Accept no person against thy own person, nor against thy soul a lie.

4:27. Reverence not thy neighbour in his fall:

4:28. And refrain not to speak in the time of salvation. Hide not thy wisdom in her beauty.

4:29. For by the tongue wisdom is discerned: and understanding, and knowledge, and learning by the word of the wise, and steadfastness in the works of justice.

4:30. In nowise speak against the truth, but be ashamed of the lie of thy ignorance.

4:31. Be not ashamed to confess thy sins, but submit not thyself to every man for sin.

4:32. Resist not against the face of the mighty, and do not strive against the stream of the river.

4:33. Strive for justice for thy soul, and even unto death fight for justice, and God will overthrow thy enemies for thee.

4:34. Be not hasty in thy tongue: and slack and remiss in thy works.

4:35. Be not as a lion in thy house, terrifying them of thy household, and oppressing them that are under thee.

4:36. Let not thy hand be stretched out to receive, and shut when thou shouldst give.
