Ecclesiasticus Chapter 5

We must not presume of our wealth or strength: nor of the mercy of God, to go on in sin: we must be steadfast in virtue and truth.

5:1. Set not thy heart upon unjust possessions, and say not: I have enough to live on: for it shall be of no service in the time of vengeance and darkness.

5:2. Follow not in thy strength the desires of thy heart:

5:3. And say not: How mighty am I? and who shall bring me under for my deeds? for God will surely take revenge.

5:4. Say not: I have sinned, and what harm hath befallen me? for the most High is a patient rewarder.

5:5. Be not without fear about sin forgiven, and add not sin upon sin:

5:6. And say not: The mercy of the Lord is great, he will have mercy on the multitude of my sins.

5:7. For mercy and wrath quickly come from him, and his wrath looketh upon sinners.

5:8. Delay not to be converted to the Lord, and defer it not from day to day.

5:9. For his wrath shall come on a sudden, and in the time of vengeance he will destroy thee.

5:10. Be not anxious for goods unjustly gotten: for they shall not profit thee in the day of calamity and revenge.

5:11. Winnow not with every wind, and go not into every way: for so is every sinner proved by a double tongue.

5:12. Be steadfast in the way of the Lord, and in the truth of thy judgment, and in knowledge, and let the word of peace and justice keep with thee.

5:13. Be meek to hear the word, that thou mayst understand: and return a true answer with wisdom.

5:14. If thou have understanding, answer thy neighbour: but if not, let thy hand be upon thy mouth, lest thou be surprised in an unskilful word, and be confounded.

5:15. Honour and glory is in the word of the wise, but the tongue of the fool is his ruin.

5:16. Be not called a whisperer, and be not taken in thy tongue, and confounded.

5:17. For confusion and repentance is upon a thief, and an evil mark of disgrace upon the double tongued, but to the whisperer hatred, and enmity, and reproach.

5:18. Justify alike the small and the great.
