Ephesians Chapter 5

Exhortations to a virtuous life. The mutual duties of man and wife, by the example of Christ and of the Church.

5:1. Be ye therefore followers of God, as most dear children:

5:2. And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us and hath delivered himself for us, an oblation and a sacrifice to God for an odour of sweetness.

5:3. But fornication and all uncleanness or covetousness, let it not so much as be named among you, as becometh saints:

5:4. Or obscenity or foolish talking or scurrility, which is to no purpose: but rather giving of thanks.

5:5. For know you this and understand: That no fornicator or unclean or covetous person (which is a serving of idols) hath inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.

5:6. Let no man deceive you with vain words. For because of these things cometh the anger of God upon the children of unbelief.

5:7. Be ye not therefore partakers with them.

5:8. For you were heretofore darkness, but now light in the Lord.  Walk then as children of the light.

5:9. For the fruit of the light is in all goodness and justice and truth:

5:10. Proving what is well pleasing to God.

5:11. And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness: but rather reprove them.

5:12. For the things that are done by them in secret, it is a shame even to speak of.

5:13. But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for all that is made manifest is light.

5:14. Wherefore he saith: Rise, thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead: and Christ shall enlighten thee.

5:15. See therefore, brethren, how you walk circumspectly: not as unwise,

5:16. But as wise: redeeming the time, because the days are evil.

5:17. Wherefore, become not unwise: but understanding what is the will of God.

5:18. And be not drunk with wine, wherein is luxury: but be ye filled with the Holy Spirit,

5:19. Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual canticles, singing and making melody in your hearts to the Lord:

5:20. Giving thanks always for all things, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, to God and the Father:

5:21. Being subject one to another, in the fear of Christ.

5:22. Let women be subject to their husbands, as to the Lord:

5:23. Because the husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. He is the saviour of his body.

5:24. Therefore as the church is subject to Christ: so also let the wives be to their husbands in all things.

5:25. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ also loved the church and delivered himself up for it:

5:26. That he might sanctify it, cleansing it by the laver of water in the word of life:

5:27. That he might present it to himself, a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.

5:28. So also ought men to love their wives as their own bodies.  He that loveth his wife loveth himself.

5:29. For no man ever hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, as also Christ doth the church:

5:30. Because we are members of him, body, of his flesh and of his bones.

5:31. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother: and shall cleave to his wife. And they shall be two in one flesh.

5:32. This is a great sacrament: but I speak in Christ and in the church.

5:33. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular love for his wife as himself: And let the wife fear her husband.
