Galatians Chapter 1

He blames the Galatians for suffering themselves to be imposed upon by new teachers. The apostle's calling.

1:1. Paul, an apostle, not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised him from the dead:

1:2. And all the brethren who are with me: to the churches of Galatia.

1:3. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father and from our Lord Jesus Christ,

1:4. Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present wicked world, according to the will of God and our Father:

1:5. To whom is glory for ever and ever. Amen.

1:6. I wonder that you are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ, unto another gospel.

1:7. Which is not another: only there are some that trouble you and would pervert the gospel of Christ.

1:8. But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach a gospel to you besides that which we have preached to you, let him be anathema.

1:9. As we said before, so now I say again: If any one preach to you a gospel, besides that which you have received, let him be anathema.

1:10. For do I now persuade men, or God? Or do I seek to please men? If I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.

1:11. For I give you to understand, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man.

1:12. For neither did I receive it of man: nor did I learn it but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.

1:13. For you have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion: how that, beyond measure, I persecuted the church of God and wasted it.

1:14. And I made progress in the Jew's religion above many of my equals in my own nation, being more abundantly zealous for the traditions of my fathers.

1:15. But when it pleased him who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace,

1:16. To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the Gentiles: immediately I condescended not to flesh and blood.

1:17. Neither went I to Jerusalem, to the apostles who were before me: but I went into Arabia, and again I returned to Damascus.

1:18. Then, after three years, I went to Jerusalem to see Peter: and I tarried with him fifteen days.

1:19. But other of the apostles I saw none, saving James the brother of the Lord.

1:20. Now the things which I write to you, behold, before God, I lie not.

1:21. Afterwards, I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia.

1:22. And I was unknown by face to the churches of Judea, which were in Christ:

1:23. But they had heard only: He, who persecuted us in times past doth now preach the faith which once he impugned.

1:24. And they glorified God in me.
