Galatians Chapter 3

The Spirit, and the blessing promised to Abraham cometh not by the law, but by faith.

3:1. O senseless Galatians, who hath bewitched you that you should not obey the truth: before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been set forth, crucified among you?

3:2. This only would I learn of you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law or by the hearing of faith?

3:3. Are you so foolish that, whereas you began in the Spirit, you would now be made perfect by the flesh?

3:4. Have you suffered so great things in vain? If it be yet in vain.

3:5. He therefore who giveth to you the Spirit and worketh miracles among you: doth he do it by the works of the law or by the hearing of the faith?

3:6. As it is written: Abraham believed God: and it was reputed to him unto justice.

3:7. Know ye, therefore, that they who are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.

3:8. And the scripture, foreseeing that God justifieth the Gentiles by faith, told unto Abraham before: In thee shall all nations be blessed.

3:9. Therefore, they that are of faith shall be blessed with faithful Abraham.

3:10. For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. For it is written: Cursed is every one that abideth, not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them.

3:11. But that in the law no man is justified with God, it is manifest: because the just man liveth by faith.

3:12. But the law is not of faith: but he that doth those things shall live in them.

3:13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us (for it is written: Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree).

3:14. That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Christ Jesus: that we may receive the promise of the Spirit by faith.

3:15. Brethren (I speak after the manner of man), yet a man's testament, if it be confirmed, no man despiseth nor addeth to it.

3:16. To Abraham were the promises made and to his seed. He saith not: And to his seeds as of many. But as of one: And to thy seed, which is Christ.

3:17. Now this I say: that the testament which was confirmed by God, the law which was made after four hundred and thirty years doth not disannul, to make the promise of no effect.

3:18. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise.

3:19. Why then was the law? It was set because of transgressions, until the seed should come to whom he made the promise, being ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.

3:20. Now a mediator is not of one: but God is one.

3:21. Was the law then against the promises of God: God forbid!  For if there had been a law given which could give life, verily justice should have been by the law.

3:22. But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise, by the faith of Jesus Christ, might be given to them that believe.

3:23. But before the faith came, we were kept under the law shut up, unto that faith which was to be revealed.

3:24. Wherefore the law was our pedagogue in Christ: that we might be justified by faith.

3:25. But after the faith is come, we are no longer under a pedagogue.

3:26. For you are all the children of God, by faith in Christ Jesus.

3:27. For as many of you as have been baptized in Christ have put on Christ.

3:28. There is neither Jew nor Greek: there is neither bond nor free: there is neither male nor female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus.

3:29. And if you be Christ's, then are you the seed of Abraham, heirs according to the promise.
