Genesis Chapter 39

Joseph hath charge of his master's house: rejecteth his mistress's solicitations: is falsely accused by her, and cast into prison, where he hath the charge of all the prisoners.

39:1. And Joseph was brought into Egypt, and Putiphar, an eunuch of Pharao, chief captain of the army, an Egyptian, bought him of the Ismaelites, by whom he was brought.

39:2. And the Lord was with him, and he was a prosperous man in all things: and he dwelt in his master's house:

39:3. Who knew very well that the Lord was with him, and made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4. And Joseph found favour in the sight of his master, and ministered to him: and being set over all by him, he governed the house committed to him, and all things that were delivered to him:

39:5. And the Lord blessed the house of the Egyptian for Joseph's sake, and multiplied all his substance, both at home and in the fields.

39:6. Neither knew he any other thing, but the bread which he ate. And Joseph was of a beautiful countenance, and comely to behold.

39:7. And after many days, his mistress cast her eyes on Joseph, and said: Lie with me.

39:8. But he in no wise consenting to that wicked act said to her: Behold, my master hath delivered all things to me, and knoweth not what he hath in his own house:

39:9. Neither is there any thing which is not in my power, or that he hath not delivered to me, but thee, who art his wife; how then can I do this wicked thing, and sin against my God?

39:10. With such words as these day by day, both the woman was importunate with the young man, and he refused the adultery.

39:11. Now it happened on a certain day, that Joseph went into the house, and was doing some business, without any man with him:

39:12. And she catching the skirt of his garment, said: Lie with me. But he leaving the garment in her hand, fled, and went out.

39:13. And when the woman saw the garment in her hands, and herself disregarded,

39:14. She called to her the men of her house, and said to them: See, he hath brought in a Hebrew, to abuse us: he came in to me, to lie with me; and when I cried out,

39:15. And he heard my voice, he left the garment that I held, and got him out.

39:16. For a proof therefore of her fidelity, she kept the garment, and shewed it to her husband when he returned home:

39:17. And said: The Hebrew servant, whom thou hast brought, came to me to abuse me.

39:18. And when he heard me cry, he left the garment which I held, and fled out.

39:19. His master hearing these things, and giving too much credit to his wife's words, was very angry,

39:20. And cast Joseph into the prison, where the king's prisoners were kept, and he was there shut up.

39:21. But the Lord was with Joseph, and having mercy upon him gave him favour in the sight of the chief keeper of the prison:

39:22. Who delivered into his hand all the prisoners that were kept in custody: and whatsoever was done, was under him.

39:23. Neither did he himself know any thing, having committed all things to him: for the Lord was with him, and made all that he did to prosper.
