Genesis Chapter 5

The genealogy, age, and death of the Patriarchs, from Adam to Noe. The translation of Henoch.

5:1. This is the book of the generation of Adam. In the day that God created man, he made him to the likeness of God.

5:2. He created them male and female; and blessed them: and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.

5:3. And Adam lived a hundred and thirty years, and begot a son to his own image and likeness, and called his name Seth.

5:4. And the days of Adam, after he begot Seth, were eight hundred years: and he begot sons and daughters.

5:5. And all the time that Adam lived, came to nine hundred and thirty years, and he died.

5:6. Seth also lived a hundred and five years, and begot Enos.

5:7. And Seth lived after he begot Enos, eight hundred and seven years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:8. And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years, and he died.

5:9. And Enos lived ninety years, and begot Cainan.

5:10. After whose birth he lived eight hundred and fifteen years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:11. And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years, and he died.

5:12. And Cainan lived seventy years, and begot Malaleel.

5:13. And Cainan lived after he begot Malaleel, eight hundred and forty years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:14. And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years, and he died.

5:15. And Malaleel lived sixty-five years and begot Jared.

5:16. And Malaleel lived after he begot Jared, eight hundred and thirty years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:17. And all the days of Malaleel were eight hundred and ninety-five years, and he died.

5:18. And Jared lived a hundred and sixty-two years, and begot Henoch.

5:19. And Jared lived after he begot Henoch, eight hundred years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:20. And all the days of Jared were nine hundred and sixty-two years, and he died.

5:21. And Henoch lived sixty-five years, and begot Mathusala.

5:22. And Henoch walked with God: and lived after he begot Mathusala, three hundred years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:23. And all the days of Henoch were three hundred and sixty-five years.

5:24. And he walked with God, and was seen no more: because God took him.

5:25. And Mathusala lived a hundred and eighty-seven years, and begot Lamech.

5:26. And Mathlusala lived after he begot Lamech, seven hundred and eighty-two years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:27. And all the days of Mathusala were nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and he died.

5:28. And Lamech lived a hundred and eighty-two years, and begot a son.

5:29. And he called his name Noe, saying: This same shall comfort us from the works and labours of our hands on the earth, which the Lord hath cursed.

5:30. And Lamech lived after he begot Noe, five hundred and ninety-five years, and begot sons and daughters.

5:31. And all the days of Lamech came to seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and he died. And Noe, when he was five hundred years old, begot Sem, Cham, and Japheth.
