Hebrews Chapter 3

Christ is more excellent than Moses. Wherefore we must adhere to him by faith and obedience.

3:1. Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly vocation consider the apostle and high priest of our confession, Jesus:

3:2. Who is faithful to him that made him, as was also Moses in all his house.

3:3. For this man was counted worthy of greater glory than Moses, by so much as he that hath built the house hath greater honour than the house.

3:4. For every house is built by some man: but he that created all things is God.

3:5. And Moses indeed was faithful in all his house as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be said:

3:6. But Christ, as the Son in his own house: which house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and glory of hope unto the end.

3:7. Wherefore, as the Holy Ghost saith: To-day if you shall hear his voice,

3:8. Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the desert,

3:9. Where your fathers tempted me, proved and saw my works,

3:10. Forty years: for which cause I was offended with this generation, and I said: They always err in heart. And they have not known my ways.

3:11. As I have sworn in my wrath: If they shall enter into my rest.

3:12. Take heed, brethren, lest perhaps there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, to depart from the living God.

3:13. But exhort one another every day, whilst it is called to day, that none of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.

3:14. For we are made partakers of Christ: yet so, if we hold the beginning of his substance firm unto the end.

3:15. While it is said: To day, if you shall hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in that provocation.

3:16. For some who heard did provoke: but not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.

3:17. And with whom was he offended forty years? Was it not with them that sinned, whose carcasses were overthrown in the desert?

3:18. And to whom did he swear, that they should not enter into his rest: but to them that were incredulous?

3:19. And we see that they could not enter in, because of unbelief.
