Hebrews Chapter 13

Divers admonitions and exhortations.

13:1. Let the charity of the brotherhood abide in you.

13:2. And hospitality do not forget: for by this some, being not aware of it, have entertained angels.

13:3. Remember them that are in bands, as if you were bound with them: and them that labour, as being yourselves also in the body.

13:4. Marriage honourable in all, and the bed undefiled. For fornicators and adulterers God will judge.

13:5. Let your manners be without covetousness, contented with such things as you have. For he hath said: I will not leave thee: neither will I forsake thee.

13:6. So that we may confidently say: The Lord is my helper: I will not fear what man shall do to me.

13:7. Remember your prelates who have spoken the word of God to you: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation,

13:8. Jesus Christ, yesterday, and today: and the same for ever.

13:9. Be not led away with various and strange doctrines. For it is best that the heart be established with grace, not with meats: which have not profited those that walk in them.

13:10. We have an altar whereof they have no power to eat who serve the tabernacle.

13:11. For the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the holies by the high priest for sin are burned without the camp.

13:12. Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people by his own blood, suffered without the gate.

13:13. Let us go forth therefore to him without the camp, bearing his reproach.

13:14. For, we have not here a lasting city: but we seek one that is to come.

13:15. By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise always to God, that is to say, the fruit of lips confessing to his name.

13:16. And do not forget to do good and to impart: for by such sacrifices God's favour is obtained.

13:17. Obey your prelates and be subject to them. For they watch as being to render an account of your souls: that they may do this with joy and not with grief. For this is not expedient for you.

13:18. Pray for us. For we trust we have a good conscience, being willing to behave ourselves well in all things.

13:19. And I beseech you the more to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.

13:20. And may the God of peace, who brought again from the dead the great pastor of the sheep, our Lord Jesus Christ, in the blood of the everlasting testament,

13:21. Fit you in all goodness, that you may do his will; doing in you that which is well pleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom is glory for ever and ever. Amen.

13:22. And I beseech you, brethren, that you suffer this word of consolation. For I have written to you in a few words.

13:23. Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty: with whom (if he come shortly) I will see you.

13:24. Salute all your prelates and all the saints. The brethren from Italy salute you.

13:25. Grace be with you all. Amen.
