James Chapter 5

A woe to the rich that oppress the poor. Exhortations to patience and to avoid swearing. Of the anointing the sick, confession of sins and fervour in prayer.

5:1. Go to now, ye rich men: weep and howl in your miseries, which shall come upon you.

5:2. Your riches are corrupted: and your garments are motheaten.

5:3. Your gold and silver is cankered: and the rust of them shall be for a testimony against you and shall eat your flesh like fire.  You have stored up to yourselves wrath against the last days.

5:4. Behold the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your fields, which by fraud has been kept back by you, crieth: and the cry of them hath entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth.

5:5. You have feasted upon earth: and in riotousness you have nourished your hearts, in the day of slaughter.

5:6. You have condemned and put to death the Just One: and he resisted you not.

5:7. Be patient therefore, brethren, until the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth: patiently bearing till he receive the early and latter rain.

5:8. Be you therefore also patient and strengthen your hearts: for the coming of the Lord is at hand.

5:9. Grudge not, brethren, one against another, that you may not be judged. Behold the judge standeth before the door.

5:10. Take, my brethren, for example of suffering evil, of labour and patience, the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord.

5:11. Behold, we account them blessed who have endured. You have heard of the patience of Job and you have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is merciful and compassionate.

5:12. But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, nor by the earth, nor by any other oath. But let your speech be: Yea, Yea: No, No: that you fall not under judgment.

5:13. Is any of you sad? Let him pray: Is he cheerful in mind? Let him sing.

5:14. Is any man sick among you? Let him bring in the priests of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord.

5:15. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick man. And the Lord shall raise him up: and if he be in sins, they shall be forgiven him.

5:16. Confess therefore your sins one to another: and pray one for another, that you may be saved. For the continual prayer of a just man availeth much.

5:17. Elias was a man passible like unto us: and with prayer he prayed that it might not rain upon the earth. And it rained not for three years and six months.

5:18. And he prayed again. And the heaven gave rain: and the earth brought forth her fruit.

5:19. My brethren, if any of you err from the truth and one convert him:

5:20. He must know that he who causeth a sinner to be converted from the error of his way shall save his soul from death and shall cover a multitude of sins.
