Job Chapter 5

5:1. Call now, if there be any that will answer thee, and turn to some of the saints.

5:2. Anger indeed killeth the foolish, and envy slayeth the little one.

5:3. I have seen a fool with a strong root, and I cursed his beauty immediately.

5:4. His children shall be far from safety, and shall be destroyed in the gate, and there shall be none to deliver them.

5:5. Whose harvest the hungry shall eat, and the armed man shall take him by violence, and the thirsty shall drink up his riches.

5:6. Nothing upon earth is done without a cause, and sorrow doth not spring out of the ground.

5:7. Man is born to labour, and the bird to fly.

5:8. Wherefore I will pray to the Lord, and address my speech to God:

5:9. Who doth great things, and unsearchable and wonderful things without number:

5:10. Who giveth rain upon the face of the earth, and watereth all things with waters:

5:11. Who setteth up the humble on high, and comforteth with health those that mourn.

5:12. Who bringeth to nought the designs of the malignant, so that their hands cannot accomplish what they had begun:

5:13. Who catcheth the wise in their craftiness, and disappointeth the counsel of the wicked:

5:14. They shall meet with darkness in the day, and grope at noonday as in the night.

5:15. But he shall save the needy from the sword of their mouth, and the poor from the hand of the violent.

5:16. And to the needy there shall be hope, but iniquity shall draw in her mouth.

5:17. Blessed is the man whom God correcteth: refuse not, therefore, the chastising of the Lord.

5:18. For he woundeth, and cureth: he striketh, and his hands shall heal.

5:19. In six troubles he shall deliver thee, and in the seventh, evil shall not touch thee.

5:20. In famine he shall deliver thee from death; and in battle, from the hand of the sword.

5:21. Thou shalt be hidden from the scourge of the tongue: and thou shalt not fear calamity when it cometh.

5:22. In destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: and thou shalt not be afraid of the beasts of the earth.

5:23. But thou shalt have a covenant with the stones of the lands, and the beasts of the earth shall be at peace with thee.

5:24. And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle is in peace, and visiting thy beauty, thou shalt not sin.

5:25. Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be multiplied, and thy offspring like the grass of the earth.

5:26. Thou shalt enter into the grave in abundance, as a heap of wheat is brought in in its season.

5:27. Behold, this is even so, as we have searched out: which thou having heard, consider it thoroughly in thy mind.
