Job Chapter 8

8:1. Then Baldad, the Suhite, answered, and said:

8:2. How long wilt thou speak these things, and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind?

8:3. Doth God pervert judgment, or doth the Almighty overthrow that which is just?

8:4. Although thy children have sinned against him, and he hath left them in the hand of their iniquity:

8:5. Yet if thou wilt arise early to God, and wilt beseech the Almighty:

8:6. If thou wilt walk clean and upright, he will presently awake unto thee, and will make the dwelling of thy justice peaceable:

8:7. In so much, that if thy former things were small thy latter things would be multiplied exceedingly.

8:8. For inquire of the former generation, and search diligently into the memory of the fathers:

8:9. (For we are but of yesterday, and are ignorant that our days upon earth are but a shadow.)

8:10. And they shall teach thee: they shall speak to thee, and utter words out of their hearts.

8:11. Can the rush be green without moisture? or sedge bush grow without water?

8:12. When it is yet in flower, and is not plucked u with the hand, it withereth before all herbs.

8:13. Even so are the ways of all that forget God, an the hope of the hypocrite shall perish:

8:14. His folly shall not please him, and his trust shall be like the spider's web.

8:15. He shall lean upon his house, and it shall no stand: he shall prop it up, and it shall not rise:

8:16. He seemeth to have moisture before the sun cometh; and at his rising, his blossom shall shoot forth.

8:17. His roots shall be thick upon a heap of stones; and among the stones he shall abide.

8:18. If one swallow him up out of his place, he shall deny him, and shall say: I know thee not.

8:19. For this is the joy of his way, that others may spring again out of the earth.

8:20. God will not cast away the simple, nor reach out his hand to the evil doer:

8:21. Until thy mouth be filled with laughter, and thy lips with rejoicing.

8:22. They that hate thee, shall be clothed with confusion: and the dwelling of the wicked shall not stand.
