Job Chapter 7

7:1. The life of man upon earth is a warfare, and his days are like the days of a hireling.

7:2. As a servant longeth for the shade, as the hireling looketh for the end of his work;

7:3. So I also have had empty months, and have numbered to myself wearisome nights.

7:4. If I lie down to sleep, I shall say: When shall I rise? and again, I shall look for the evening, and shall be filled with sorrows even till darkness.

7:5. My flesh is clothed with rottenness and the filth of dust; my skin is withered and drawn together.

7:6. My days have passed more swiftly than the web is cut by the weaver, and are consumed without any hope.

7:7. Remember that my life is but wind, and my eye shall not return to see good things.

7:8. Nor shall the sight of man behold me: thy eyes are upon me, and I shall be no more.

7:9. As a cloud is consumed, and passeth away: so he that shall go down to hell shall not come up.

7:10. Nor shall he return any more into his house, neither shall his place know him any more.

7:11. Wherefore, I will not spare my month, I will speak in the affliction of my spirit: I will talk with the bitterness of my soul.

7:12. Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou hast inclosed me in a prison?

7:13. If I say: My bed shall comfort me, and I shall be relieved, speaking with myself on my couch:

7:14. Thou wilt frighten me with dreams, and terrify me with visions.

7:15. So that my soul rather chooseth hanging, and my bones death.

7:16. I have done with hope, I shall now live no longer: spare me, for my days are nothing.

7:17. What is a man, that thou shouldst magnify him or why dost thou set thy heart upon him?

7:18. Thou visitest him early in the morning, and thou provest him suddenly.

7:19. How long wilt thou not spare me, nor suffer me to swallow down my spittle?

7:20. I have sinned: what shall I do to thee, O keeper of men? why hast thou set me opposite to thee and am I become burdensome to myself?

7:21. Why dost thou not remove my sin, and why dost thou not take away my iniquity? Behold now I shall sleep in the dust: and if thou seek me in the morning, I shall not be.
