Job Chapter 6

6:1. But Job answered, and said:

6:2. O that my sins, whereby I have deserved wrath, and the calamity that I suffer, were weighed in a balance.

6:3. As the sand of the sea, this would appear heavier: therefore, my words are full of sorrow:

6:4. For the arrows of the Lord are in me, the rage whereof drinketh up my spirit, and the terrors of the Lord war against me.

6:5. Will the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or will the ox low when he standeth before a full manger?

6:6. Or can an unsavoury thing be eaten, that is not seasoned with salt? or can a man taste that which, when tasted, bringeth death?

6:7. The things which before my soul would not touch, now, through anguish, are my meats.

6:8. Who will grant that my request may come: and that God may give me what I look for?

6:9. And that he that hath begun may destroy me, that he may let loose his hand, and cut me off?

6:10. And that this may be my comfort, that afflicting me with sorrow, he spare not, nor I contradict the words of the Holy one.

6:11. For what is my strength, that I can hold out? or what is my end, that I should keep patience?

6:12. My strength is not the strength of stones, nor is my flesh of brass.

6:13. Behold there is no help for me in myself, and my familiar friends also are departed from me.

6:14. He that taketh away mercy from his friend, for saketh the fear of the Lord.

6:15. My brethren have passed by me, as the torrent that passeth swiftly in the valleys.

6:16. They that fear the hoary frost, the snow shall fall upon them.

6:17. At the time when they shall be scattered they shall perish: and after it groweth hot, they shall be melted out of their place.

6:18. The paths of their steps are entangled: they shall walk in vain, and shall perish.

6:19. Consider the paths of Thema, the ways of Saba, and wait a little while.

6:20. They arc confounded, because I have hoped: they are come also even unto me, and are covered with shame.

6:21. Now you are come: and now, seeing my affliction, you are afraid.

6:22. Did I say: Bring to me, and give me of your substance?

6:23. Or deliver me from the hand of the enemy, and rescue me out of the hand of the mighty?

6:24. Teach me, and I will hold my peace: and if I have been ignorant of any thing, instruct me.

6:25. Why have you detracted the words of truth, whereas there is none of you that can reprove me?

6:26. You dress up speeches only to rebuke, and you utter words to the wind.

6:27. You rush in upon the fatherless, and you endeavour to overthrow your friend.

6:28. However, finish what you have begun: give ear and see whether I lie.

6:29. Answer, I beseech you, without contention: and speaking that which is just, judge ye.

6:30. And you shall not find iniquity in my tongue, neither shall folly sound in my mouth.
