Job Chapter 9

9:1. And Job answered, and said:

9:2. Indeed I know it is so, and that man cannot be justified, compared with God.

9:3. If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one for a thousand.

9:4. He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath resisted him, and hath had peace?

9:5. Who hath removed mountains, and they whom he overthrew in his wrath, knew it not.

9:6. Who shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble.

9:7. Who commandeth the sun, and it riseth not: and shutteth up the stars, as it were, under a seal:

9:8. Who alone spreadeth out the heavens, and walketh upon the waves of the sea,

9:9. Who maketh Arcturus, and Orion, and Hyades, and the inner parts of the south.

9:10. Who doth things great and incomprehensible, and wonderful, of which there is no number.

9:11. If he come to me, I shall not see him: if he depart, I shall not understand.

9:12. If he examine on a sudden, who shall answer him? or who can say: Why dost thou so?

9:13. God, whose wrath no man can resist, and under whom they stoop that bear up the world.

9:14. What am I then, that I should answer him, and have words with him?

9:15. I, who although I should have any just thing, would not answer, but would make supplication to my judge.

9:16. And if he should hear me when I call, I should not believe that he had heard my voice.

9:17. For he shall crush me in a whirlwind, and multiply my wounds even without cause.

9:18. He alloweth not my spirit to rest, and he filleth me with bitterness.

9:19. If strength be demanded, he is most strong: if equity of judgment, no man dare bear witness for me.

9:20. If I would justify myself, my own mouth shall condemn me: if I would shew myself innocent, he shall prove me wicked.

9:21. Although I should be simple, even this my soul shall be ignorant of, and I shall be weary of my life.

9:22. One thing there is that I have spoken, both the innocent and the wicked he consumeth.

9:23. If he scourge, let him kill at once, and not laugh at the pains of the innocent.

9:24. The earth is given into the hand of the wicked, he covereth the face of the judges thereof: and if it be not he, who is it then?

9:25. My days have been swifter than a post: they have fled away and have not seen good.

9:26. They have passed by as ships carrying fruits, as an eagle flying to the prey.

9:27. If I say: I will not speak so: I change my face, and am tormented with sorrow.

9:28. I feared all my works, knowing that thou didst not spare the offender.

9:29. But if so also I am wicked, why have I laboured in vain?

9:30. If I be washed, as it were, with snow waters, and my hands shall shine ever 80. clean:

9:31. Yet thou shalt plunge me in filth, and my garments shall abhor me.

9:32. For I shall not answer a man that is like myself: nor one that may be heard with me equally in judgment.

9:33. There is none that may be able to reprove both, and to put his hand between both.

9:34. Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me.

9:35. I will speak, and will not fear him: for I cannot answer while I am in fear.
