Job Chapter 4

4:1. Then Eliphaz, the Themanite, answered, and said:

4:2. If we begin to speak to thee, perhaps thou wilt take it ill; but who can withhold the words he hath conceived?

4:3. Behold thou hast taught many, and thou hast strengthened the weary hands:

4:4. Thy words have confirmed them that were staggering, and thou hast strengthened the trembling knees:

4:5. But now the scourge is come upon thee, and thou faintest: It hath touched thee, and thou art troubled.

4:6. Where is thy fear, thy fortitude, thy patience, and the perfection of thy ways?

4:7. Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished being innocent? or when were the just destroyed?

4:8. On the contrary, I have seen those who work iniquity, and sow sorrows, and reap them,

4:9. Perishing by the blast of God, and consumed by the spirit of his wrath.

4:10. The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the lioness, and the teeth of the whelps of lions, are broken:

4:11. The tiger hath perished for want of prey, and the young lions are scattered abroad.

4:12. Now there was a word spoken to me in private, and my ears by stealth, as it were, received the veins of its whisper.

4:13. In the horror of a vision by night, when deep sleep is wont to hold men,

4:14. Fear seized upon me, and trembling, and all my bones were affrighted:

4:15. And when a spirit passed before me, the hair of my flesh stood up.

4:16. There stood one whose countenance I knew not, an image before my eyes, and I heard the voice, as it were, of a gentle wind.

4:17. Shall man be justified in comparison of God, or shall a man be more pure than his maker?

4:18. Behold, they that serve him are not steadfast, and in his angels he found wickedness:

4:19. How much more shall they that dwell in houses of clay, who have an earthly foundation, be consumed as with the moth?

4:20. From morning till evening they shall be cut down: and because no one understandeth, they shall perish for ever.

4:21. And they that shall be left, shall be taken away from them: they shall die, and not in wisdom.
