Joel Chapter 3

3:1. For behold in those days, and in that time when I shall bring back the captivity of Juda, and Jerusalem:

3:2. I will gather together all nations and will bring them down into the valley of Josaphat: and I will plead with them there for my people, and for my inheritance, Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and have parted my land.

3:3. And they have cast lots upon my people: and the boy they have put in the stews, and the girl they have sold for wine, that they might drink.

3:4. But what have you to do with me, O Tyre, and Sidon, and all the coast of the Philistines? will you revenge yourselves on me? and if you revenge yourselves on me, I will very soon return you a recompense upon your own head.

3:5. For you have taken away my silver, and my gold: and my desirable, and most beantiful things you have carried into your temples.

3:6. And the children of Juda, and the children of Jerusalem, you have sold to the children of the Greeks, that you might remove them far off from their own country.

3:7. Behold, I will raise them up out of the place wherein you have sold them: and I will return your recompense upon your own heads.

3:8. And I will sell yonr sons, and your daughters, by the hands of the children of Juda, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far off, for the Lord hath spoken it.

3:9. Proclaim ye this among the nations: Prepare war, raise up the strong: let them come, let all the men of war come up.

3:10. Cut your ploughshares into swords, and your spades into spears. Let the weak say: I am strong.

3:11. Break forth, and come, all ye nations from round about, and gather yourselves together: there will the Lord cause all thy strong ones to fall down.

3:12. Let them arise, and let the nations come up into the valley of Josaphat: for there I will sit to judge all nations round about.

3:13. Put ye in the sickles, for the harvest is ripe: come and go down, for the press is full, the fats run over: for their wickedness is multiplied.

3:14. Nations, nations in the valley of destruction: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of destruction.

3:15. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars have withdrawn their shining.

3:16. And the Lord shall roar out of Sion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem: and the heavens and the earth shall be moved, and the Lord shall be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of Israel.

3:17. And you shall know that I am the Lord your God, dwelling in Sion, my holy monntain: and Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall pass through it no more.

3:18. And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall drop down sweetness, and the hills shall flow with milk: and waters shall flow through all the rivers of Juda: and a fountain shall come forth of the house of the Lord, and shall water the torrent of thorns.

3:19. Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom a wilderness destroyed: because they have done unjustly against the children of Juda, and have shed innocent blood in their land.

3:20. And Judea shall be inhabited for ever, and Jerusalem to generation and generation.

3:21. And I will cleanse their blood, which I had not cleansed: and the Lord will dwell in Sion.
