John Chapter 7

Christ goes up to the feast of the tabernacles. He teaches in the temple.

7:1. After these things, Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Judea, because the Jews sought to kill him.

7:2. Now the Jews feast of tabernacles was at hand.

7:3. And his brethren said to, him: Pass from hence and go into Judea, that thy disciples also may see thy works which thou dost.

7:4. For there is no man that doth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, manifest thyself to the world.

7:5. For neither did his brethren believe in him.

7:6. Then Jesus said to them: My time is not yet come; but your time is always ready.

7:7. The world cannot hate you: but me it hateth, because I give testimony of it, that the works thereof are evil,

7:8. Go you up to this festival day: but I go not up to this festival day, because my time is not accomplished.

7:9. When he had said these things, he himself stayed in Galilee.

7:10. But after his brethren were gone up, then he also went up to the feast, not openly, but, as it were, in secret.

7:11. The Jews therefore sought him on the festival day and said: Where is he?

7:12. And there was much murmuring among the multitude concerning him. For some said: He is a good man. And others said: No, but he seduceth the people.

7:13. Yet no man spoke openly of him, for fear of the Jews.

7:14. Now, about the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught.

7:15. And the Jews wondered, saying: How doth this man know letters, having never learned?

7:16. Jesus answered them and said: My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.

7:17. If any man will do the will of him, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.

7:18. He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh the glory of him that sent him, he is true and there is no injustice in him.

7:19. Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law?

7:20. Why seek you to kill me? The multitude answered and said: Thou hast a devil. Who seeketh to kill thee?

7:21. Jesus answered and said to them: One work I have done: and you all wonder.

7:22. Therefore, Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers): and on the sabbath day you circumcise a man.

7:23. If a man receive circumcision on the sabbath day, that the law of Moses may not be broken: are you angry at me, because I have healed the whole man on the sabbath day?

7:24. Judge not according to the appearance: but judge just judgment.

7:25. Some therefore of Jerusalem said: Is not this he whom they seek to kill?

7:26. And behold, he speaketh openly: and they say nothing to him. Have the rulers known for a truth that this is the Christ?

7:27. But we know this man, whence he is: but when the Christ cometh, no man knoweth, whence he is.

7:28. Jesus therefore cried out in the temple, teaching and saying: You both know me, and you know whence I am. And I am not come of myself: but he that sent me is true, whom you know not.

7:29. I know him, because I am from him: and he hath sent me.

7:30. They sought therefore to apprehend him: and no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.

7:31. But of the people many believed in him and said: When the Christ cometh, shall he do more miracles than this man doth?

7:32. The Pharisees heard the people murmuring these things concerning him: and the rulers and Pharisees sent ministers to apprehend him.

7:33. Jesus therefore said to them: Yet a little while I am with you: and then I go to him that sent me.

7:34. You shall seek me and shall not find me: and where I am, thither you cannot come.

7:35. The Jews therefore said among themselves: Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? Will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles and teach the Gentiles?

7:36. What is this saying that he hath said: You shall seek me and shall not find me? And: Where I am, you cannot come?

7:37. And on the last, and great day of the festivity, Jesus stood and cried, saying: If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink.

7:38. He that believeth in me, as the scripture saith: Out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.

7:39. Now this he said of the Spirit which they should receive who believed in him: for as yet the Spirit was not given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.

7:40. Of that multitude therefore, when they had heard these words of his, some said: This is the prophet indeed.

7:41. Others said: This is the Christ. But some said: Doth the Christ come out of Galilee?

7:42. Doth not the scripture say: That Christ cometh of the seed of David and from Bethlehem the town where David was?

7:43. So there arose a dissension among the people because of him.

7:44. And some of them would have apprehended him: but no man laid hands upon him.

7:45. The ministers therefore came to the chief priests and the Pharisees. And they said to them: Why have you not brought him?

7:46. The ministers answered: Never did man speak like this man.

7:47. The Pharisees therefore answered them: Are you also seduced?

7:48. Hath any one of the rulers believed in him, or of the Pharisees?

7:49. But this multitude, that knoweth not the law, are accursed.

7:50. Nicodemus said to them (he that came to him by night, who was one of them):

7:51. Doth our law judge any man, unless it first hear him and know what he doth?

7:52. They answered and said to him: Art thou also a Galilean?  Search the scriptures, and see that out of Galilee a prophet riseth not.

7:53. And every man returned to his own house.
