John Chapter 8

The woman taken in adultery. Christ justifies his doctrine.

8:1. And Jesus went unto mount Olivet.

8:2. And early in the morning he came again into the temple: and all the people came to him. And sitting down he taught them.

8:3. And the scribes and Pharisees bring unto him a woman taken in adultery: and they set her in the midst,

8:4. And said to him: Master, this woman was even now taken in adultery.

8:5. Now Moses in the law commanded us to stone such a one. But what sayest thou?

8:6. And this they said tempting him, that they might accuse him. But Jesus bowing himself down, wrote with his finger on the ground.

8:7. When therefore they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said to them: He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.

8:8. And again stooping down, he wrote on the ground.

8:9. But they hearing this, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest. And Jesus alone remained, and the woman standing in the midst.

8:10. Then Jesus lifting up himself, said to her: Woman, where are they that accused thee? Hath no man condemned thee?

8:11. Who said: No man, Lord. And Jesus said: Neither will I condemn thee. Go, and now sin no more.

8:12. Again therefore, Jesus spoke to: them, saying: I am the light of the world. He that followeth me walketh not in darkness, but shall have the light of life.

8:13. The Pharisees therefore said to him: Thou givest testimony of thyself. Thy testimony is not true.

8:14. Jesus answered and said to them: Although I give testimony of myself, my testimony is true: for I know whence I came and whither I go.

8:15. You judge according to the flesh: I judge not any man.

8:16. And if I do judge, my judgment is true: because I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.

8:17. And in your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true.

8:18. I am one that give testimony of myself: and the Father that sent me giveth testimony of me.

8:19. They said therefore to him: Where is thy Father? Jesus answered: Neither me do you know, nor my Father. If you did know me, perhaps you would know my Father also.

8:20. These words Jesus spoke in the treasury, teaching in the temple: and no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.

8:21. Again therefore Jesus said to them: I go: and you shall seek me. And you shall die in your sin. Whither I go, you cannot come.

8:22. The Jews therefore said: Will he kill himself, because he said: Whither I go you cannot come?

8:23. And he said to them: You are from beneath: I am from above. You are of this world: I am not of this world.

8:24. Therefore I said to you that you shall die in your sins.  For if you believe not that I am he, you shall die in your sin.

8:25. They said therefore to him: Who art thou? Jesus said to them: The beginning, who also speak unto you.

8:26. Many things I have to speak and to judge of you. But he that sent me, is true: and the things I have heard of him, these same I speak in the world.

8:27. And they understood not that he called God his Father.

8:28. Jesus therefore said to them: When you shall have lifted up, the Son of man, then shall you know that I am he and that I do nothing of myself. But as the Father hath taught me, these things I speak.

8:29. And he that sent me is with me: and he hath not left me alone. For I do always the things that please him.

8:30. When he spoke these things, many believed in him.

8:31. Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed him: If you continue in my word, you shall be my disciples indeed.

8:32. And you shall know the truth: and the truth shall make you free.

8:33. They answered him: We are the seed of Abraham: and we have never been slaves to any man. How sayest thou: You shall be free?

8:34. Jesus answered them: Amen, amen, I say unto you that whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.

8:35. Now the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the son abideth for ever.

8:36. If therefore the son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed.

8:37. I know that you are the children of Abraham: but you seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you.

8:38. I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and you do the things that you have seen with your father.

8:39. They answered and said to him: Abraham is our father. Jesus saith them: If you be the children of Abraham, do the works of Abraham.

8:40. But now you seek to kill me, a man who have spoken the truth to you, which I have heard of God. This Abraham did not.

8:41. You do the works of your father. They said therefore to him: We are not born of fornication: we have one Father, even God.

8:42. Jesus therefore said to them: If God were your Father, you would indeed love me. For from God I proceeded and came. For I came not of myself: but he sent me.

8:43. Why do you not know my speech? Because you cannot hear my word.

8:44. You are of your father the devil: and the desires of your father you will do. He was a murderer from the beginning: and he stood not in the truth, because truth is not in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father thereof.

8:45. But if I say the truth, you believe me not.

8:46. Which of you shall convince me of sin? If I say the truth to you, why do you not believe me:

8:47. He that is of God heareth the words of God. Therefore you hear them not, because you are not of God.

8:48. The Jews therefore answered and said to him: Do not we say well that thou art a Samaritan and hast a devil?

8:49. Jesus answered: I have not a devil: but I honour my Father. And you have dishonoured me.

8:50. But I seek not my own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.

8:51. Amen, amen, I say to you: If any man keep my word, he shall not see death for ever.

8:52. The Jews therefore said: Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets: and thou sayest: If any man keep my word, he shall not taste death for ever.

8:53. Art thou greater than our father Abraham who is dead? And the prophets are dead. Whom dost thou make thyself?

8:54. Jesus answered: If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing.  It is my Father that glorifieth me, of whom you say that he is your God.

8:55. And you have not known him: but I know him. And if I shall say that I know him not, I shall be like to you, a liar. But I do know him and do keep his word.

8:56. Abraham your father rejoiced that he might see my day: he saw it and was glad.

8:57. The Jews therefore said to him: Thou art not yet fifty years old. And hast thou seen Abraham?

8:58. Jesus said to them: Amen, amen, I say to you, before Abraham was made, I AM.

8:59. They took up stones therefore to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple.
