John Chapter 16

The conclusion of Christ's last discourse to his disciples.

16:1. These things have I spoken to you, that you may not be scandalized.

16:2. They will put you out of the synagogues: yea, the hour cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doth a service to God.

16:3. And these things will they do to you; because they have not known the Father nor me.

16:4. But these things I have told you, that when the hour shall come, you may remember that I told you of them.

16:5. But I told you not these things from the beginning, because I was with you. And now I go to him that sent me, and none of you asketh me: Whither goest thou?

16:6. But because I have spoken these things to you, sorrow hath filled your heart.

16:7. But I tell you the truth: it is expedient to you that I go.  For if I go not, the Paraclete will not come to you: but if I go, I will send him to you.

16:8. And when he is come, he will convince the world of sin and of justice and of judgment.

16:9. Of sin: because they believed not in me.

16:10. And of justice: because I go to the Father: and you shall see me no longer.

16:11. And of judgment: because the prince of this world is already judged.

16:12. I have yet many things to say to you: but you cannot bear them now.

16:13. But when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will teach you all truth. For he shall not speak of himself: but what things soever he shall hear, he shall speak. And the things that are to come, he shall shew you.

16:14. He shall glorify me: because he shall receive of mine and shall shew it to you.

16:15. All things whatsoever the Father hath are mine. Therefore I said that he shall receive of me and shew it to you.

16:16. A little while, and now you shall not see me: and again a little while, and you shall see me: because I go to the Father.

16:17. Then some of his disciples said one to another: What is this that he saith to us: A little while, and you shall not see me: and again a little while, and you shall see me, and, Because I go to the Father?

16:18. They said therefore: What is this that he saith, A little while? We know not what he speaketh.

16:19. And Jesus knew that they had a mind to ask him. And he said to them: Of this do you inquire among yourselves, because I said: A little while, and you shall not see me; and again a little while, and you shall see me?

16:20. Amen, amen, I say to you, that you shall lament and weep, but the world shall rejoice: and you shall be made sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.

16:21. A woman, when she is in labour, hath sorrow, because her hour is come; but when she hath brought forth the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world.

16:22. So also you now indeed have sorrow: but I will see you again and your heart shall rejoice. And your joy no man shall take from you.

16:23. And in that day you shall not ask me any thing. Amen, amen, I say to you: if you ask the Father any thing in my name, he will give it you.

16:24. Hitherto, you have not asked any thing in my name. Ask, and you shall receive; that your joy may be full.

16:25. These things I have spoken to you in proverbs. The hour cometh when I will no longer speak to you in proverbs, but will shew you plainly of the Father.

16:26. In that day, you shall ask in my name: and I say not to you that I will ask the Father for you.

16:27. For the Father himself loveth you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came out from God.

16:28. I came forth from the Father and am come into the world: again I leave the world and I go to the Father.

16:29. His disciples say to him: Behold, now thou speakest plainly and speakest no proverb.

16:30. Now we know that thou knowest all things and thou needest not that any man should ask thee. By this we believe that thou camest forth from God.

16:31. Jesus answered them: Do you now believe?

16:32. Behold, the hour cometh, and it is now come, that you shall be scattered every man to his own and shall leave me alone. And yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.

16:33. These things I have spoken to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world you shall have distress. But have confidence. I have overcome the world.
