John Chapter 6

Christ feeds five thousand with five loaves. He walks upon the sea and discourses of the bread of life.

6:1. After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is that of Tiberias.

6:2. And a great multitude followed him, because they saw the miracles which he did on them that were diseased.

6:3. Jesus therefore went up into a mountain: and there he sat with his disciples.

6:4. Now the pasch, the festival day of the Jews, was near at hand.

6:5. When Jesus therefore had lifted up his eyes and seen that a very great multitude cometh to him, he said to Philip: Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?

6:6. And this he said to try him: for he himself knew what he would do.

6:7. Philip answered him: Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them that every one may take a little.

6:8. One of his disciples, Andrew, the brother of Simon Peter, saith to him:

6:9. There is a boy here that hath five barley loaves and two fishes. But what are these among so many?

6:10. Then Jesus said: Make the men sit down. Now, there was much grass in the place. The men therefore sat down, in number about five thousand.

6:11. And Jesus took the loaves: and when he had given thanks, he distributed to them that were set down. In like manner also of the fishes, as much as they would.

6:12. And when they were filled, he said to his disciples: gather up the fragments that remain, lest they be lost.

6:13. They gathered up therefore and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which remained over and above to them that had eaten.

6:14. Now those men, when they had seen what a miracle Jesus had done, said: This is of a truth the prophet that is to come into the world.

6:15. Jesus therefore, when he knew that they would come to take him by force and make him king, fled again into the mountains, himself alone.

6:16. And when evening was come, his disciples went down to the sea.

6:17. And when they had gone up into a ship, they went over the sea to Capharnaum. And it was now dark: and Jesus was not come unto them.

6:18. And the sea arose, by reason of a great wind that blew.

6:19. When they had rowed therefore about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking upon the sea and drawing nigh to the ship. And they were afraid.

6:20. But he saith to them: It is I. Be not afraid.

6:21. They were willing therefore to take him into the ship. And presently the ship was at the land to which they were going.

6:22. The next day, the multitude that stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was no other ship there but one: and that Jesus had not entered into the ship with his disciples, but that his disciples were gone away alone.

6:23. But other ships came in from Tiberias, nigh unto the place where they had eaten the bread, the Lord giving thanks.

6:24. When therefore the multitude saw that Jesus was not there, nor his disciples, they took shipping and came to Capharnaum, seeking for Jesus.

6:25. And when they had found him on that other side of the sea, they said to him: Rabbi, when camest thou hither?

6:26. Jesus answered them and said: Amen, amen, I say to you, you seek me, not because you have seen miracles, but because you did eat of the loaves and were filled.

6:27. Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that which endureth unto life everlasting, which the Son of man will give you. For him hath God, the Father, sealed.

6:28. They said therefore unto him: What shall we do, that we may work the works of God?

6:29. Jesus answered and said to them: This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he hath sent.

6:30. They said therefore to him: What sign therefore dost thou shew that we may see and may believe thee? What dost thou work?

6:31. Our fathers did eat manna in the desert, as it is written: He gave them bread from heaven to eat.

6:32. Then Jesus said to them: Amen, amen, I say to you; Moses gave you not bread from heaven, but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.

6:33. For the bread of God is that which cometh down from heaven and giveth life to the world.

6:34. They said therefore unto him: Lord, give us always this bread.

6:35. And Jesus said to them: I am the bread of life. He that cometh to me shall not hunger: and he that believeth in me shall never thirst.

6:36. But I said unto you that you also have seen me, and you believe not.

6:37. All that the Father giveth to me shall come to me: and him that cometh to me, I will not cast out.

6:38. Because I came down from heaven, not to do my own will but the will of him that sent me.

6:39. Now this is the will of the Father who sent me: that of all that he hath given me, I should lose nothing; but should raise it up again in the last day.

6:40. And this is the will of my Father that sent me: that every one who seeth the Son and believeth in him may have life everlasting. And I will raise him up in the last day.

6:41. The Jews therefore murmured at him, because he had said: I am the living bread which came down from heaven.

6:42. And they said: Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? How then saith he: I came down from heaven?

6:43. Jesus therefore answered and said to them: Murmur not among yourselves.

6:44. No man can come to me, except the Father, who hath sent me, draw him. And I will raise him up in the last day.

6:45. It is written in the prophets: And they shall all be taught of God. Every one that hath heard of the Father and hath learned cometh forth me.

6:46. Not that any man hath seen the Father: but he who is of God, he hath seen the Father.

6:47. Amen, amen, I say unto you: He that believeth in me hath everlasting life.

6:48. I am the bread of life.

6:49. Your fathers did eat manna in the desert: and are dead.

6:50. This is the bread which cometh down from heaven: that if any man eat of it, he may not die.

6:51. I am the living bread which came down from heaven.

6:52. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, for the life of the world.

6:53. The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying: How can this man give us his flesh to eat?

6:54. Then Jesus said to them: Amen, amen, I say unto you: except you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you shall not have life in you.

6:55. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood hath everlasting life: and I will raise him up in the last day.

6:56. For my flesh is meat indeed: and my blood is drink indeed.

6:57. He that eateth my flesh and drinketh my blood abideth in me: and I in him.

6:58. As the living Father hath sent me and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, the same also shall live by me.

6:59. This is the bread that came down from heaven. Not as your fathers did eat manna and are dead. He that eateth this bread shall live for ever.

6:60. These things he said, teaching in the synagogue, in Capharnaum.

6:61. Many therefore of his disciples, hearing it, said: This saying is hard; and who can hear it?

6:62. But Jesus, knowing in himself that his disciples murmured at this, said to them: Doth this scandalize you?

6:63. If then you shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?

6:64. It is the spirit that quickeneth: the flesh profiteth nothing. The words that I have spoken to you are spirit and life.

6:65. But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that did not believe and who he was that would betray him.

6:66. And he said: Therefore did I say to you that no man can come to me, unless it be given him by my Father.

6:67. After this, many of his disciples went back and walked no more with him.

6:68. Then Jesus said to the twelve: Will you also go away?

6:69. And Simon Peter answered him: Lord, to whom shall we go?  Thou hast the words of eternal life.

6:70. And we have believed and have known that thou art the Christ, the Son of God.

6:71. Jesus answered them: Have not I chosen you twelve? And one of you is a devil.

6:72. Now he meant Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon: for this same was about to betray him, whereas he was one of the twelve.
