John Chapter 4

Christ talks with the Samaritan woman. He heals the ruler's son.

4:1. When Jesus therefore understood the Pharisees had heard that Jesus maketh more disciples and baptizeth more than John,

4:2. (Though Jesus himself did not baptize, but his disciples),

4:3. He left Judea and went again into Galilee.

4:4. And he was of necessity to pass through Samaria.

4:5. He cometh therefore to a city of Samaria, which is called Sichar, near the land which Jacob gave to his son Joseph.

4:6. Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well. It was about the sixth hour.

4:7. There cometh a woman of Samaria, to draw water. Jesus saith to her: Give me to drink.

4:8. For his disciples were gone into the city to buy meats.

4:9. Then that Samaritan woman saith to him: How dost thou, being a Jew; ask of me to drink, who am a Samaritan woman? For the Jews do not communicate with the Samaritans.

4:10. Jesus answered and said to her: If thou didst know the gift of God and who he is that saith to thee: Give me to drink; thou perhaps wouldst have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.

4:11. The woman saith to him: Sir, thou hast nothing wherein to draw, and the well is deep. From whence then hast thou living water?

4:12. Art thou greater than our father Jacob, who gave us the well and drank thereof, himself and his children and his cattle?

4:13. Jesus answered and said to her: Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: but he that shall drink of the water that I will give him shall not thirst for ever.

4:14. But the water that I will give him shall become in him a fountain of water, springing up into life everlasting.

4:15. The woman said to him: Sir, give me this water, that I may not thirst, nor come hither to draw.

4:16. Jesus saith to her: Go, call thy husband, and come hither.

4:17. The woman answered and said: I have no husband. Jesus said to her: Thou hast said well: I have no husband.

4:18. For thou hast had five husbands: and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband. This, thou hast said truly.

4:19. The woman saith to him: Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.

4:20. Our fathers adored on this mountain: and you say that at Jerusalem is the place where men must adore.

4:21. Jesus saith to her: Woman, believe me that the hour cometh, when you shall neither on this mountain, nor in Jerusalem, adore the Father.

4:22. You adore that which you know not: we adore that which we know. For salvation is of the Jews.

4:23. But the hour cometh and now is, when the true adorers shall adore the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father also seeketh such to adore him.

4:24. God is a spirit: and they that adore him must adore him in spirit and in truth.

4:25. The woman saith to him: I know that the Messias cometh (who is called Christ): therefore, when he is come, he will tell us all things.

4:26. Jesus saith to her: I am he, who am speaking with thee.

4:27. And immediately his disciples came. And they wondered that he talked with the woman. Yet no man said: What seekest thou?  Or: Why talkest thou with her?

4:28. The woman therefore left her waterpot and went her way into the city and saith to the men there:

4:29. Come, and see a man who has told me all things whatsoever I have done. Is not he the Christ?

4:30. They went therefore out of the city and came unto him.

4:31. In the mean time, the disciples prayed him, saying: Rabbi, eat.

4:32. But he said to them: I have meat to eat which you know not.

4:33. The disciples therefore said one to another: Hath any man brought him to eat?

4:34. Jesus saith to them: My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, that I may perfect his work.

4:35. Do not you say: There are yet four months, and then the harvest cometh? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes, and see the countries. For they are white already to harvest.

4:36. And he that reapeth receiveth wages and gathereth fruit unto life everlasting: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.

4:37. For in this is the saying true: That it is one man that soweth, and it is another that reapeth.

4:38. I have sent you to reap that in which you did not labour.  Others have laboured: and you have entered into their labours.

4:39. Now of that city many of the Samaritans believed in him, for the word of the woman giving testimony: He told me all things whatsoever I have done.

4:40. So when the Samaritans were come to him, they desired that he would tarry there. And he abode there two days.

4:41. And many more believed in him, because of his own word.

4:42. And they said to the woman: We now believe, not for thy saying: for we ourselves have heard him and know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world.

4:43. Now after two days, he departed thence and went into Galilee.

4:44. For Jesus himself gave testimony that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.

4:45. And when he was come into Galilee, the Galileans received him, having seen all the things he had done at Jerusalem on the festival day: for they also went to the festival day.

4:46. He came again therefore into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain ruler, whose son was sick at Capharnaum.

4:47. He having heard that Jesus was come from Judea into Galilee, sent to him and prayed him to come down and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.

4:48. Jesus therefore said to him: Unless you see signs and wonders, you believe not.

4:49. The ruler saith to him: Lord, come down before that my son die.

4:50. Jesus saith to him: Go thy way. Thy son liveth. The man believed the word which Jesus said to him and went his way.

4:51. And as he was going down, his servants met him: and they brought word, saying, that his son lived.

4:52. He asked therefore of them the hour wherein he grew better.  And they said to him: Yesterday at the seventh hour, the fever left him.

4:53. The father therefore knew that it was at the same hour that Jesus said to him: Thy son liveth. And himself believed, and his whole house.

4:54. This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judea. into Galilee.
