John Chapter 2

Christ changes water into wine. He casts the sellers out of the temple.

2:1. And the third day, there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee: and the mother of Jesus was there.

2:2. And Jesus also was invited, and his disciples, to the marriage.

2:3. And the wine failing, the mother of Jesus saith to him: They have no wine.

2:4. And Jesus saith to her: Woman, what is that to me and to thee? My hour is not yet come.

2:5. His mother saith to the waiters: Whatsoever he shall say to you, do ye.

2:6. Now there were set there six waterpots of stone, according to the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three measures apiece.

2:7. Jesus saith to them: Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.

2:8. And Jesus saith to them: Draw out now and carry to the chief steward of the feast. And they carried it.

2:9. And when the chief steward had tasted the water made wine and knew not whence it was, but the waiters knew who had drawn the water: the chief steward calleth the bridegroom,

2:10. And saith to him: Every man at first setteth forth good wine, and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse.  But thou hast kept the good wine until now.

2:11. This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee and manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him.

2:12. After this, he went down to Capharnaum, he and his mother and his brethren and his disciples: and they remained there not many days.

2:13. And the pasch of the Jews was at hand: and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.

2:14. And he found in the temple them that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting.

2:15. And when he had made, as it were, a scourge of little cords, he drove them all out of the temple, the sheep also and the oxen: and the money of the changers he poured out, and the tables he overthrew.

2:16. And to them that sold doves he said: Take these things hence, and make not the house of my Father a house of traffic.

2:17. And his disciples remembered, that it was written: The zeal of thy house hath eaten me up.

2:18. The Jews, therefore, answered, and said to him: What sign dost thou shew unto us, seeing thou dost these things?

2:19. Jesus answered and said to them: Destroy this temple; and in three days I will raise it up.

2:20. The Jews then said: Six and forty years was this temple in building; and wilt thou raise it up in three days?

2:21. But he spoke of the temple of his body.

2:22. When therefore he was risen again from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this: and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had said.

2:23. Now when he was at Jerusalem, at the pasch, upon the festival day, many believed in his name, seeing his signs which he did.

2:24. But Jesus did not trust himself unto them: for that he knew all men,

2:25. And because he needed not that any should give testimony of man: for he knew what was in man.
