John Chapter 17

Christ's prayer for his disciples.

17:1. These things Jesus spoke: and lifting up his eyes to heaven, he said: the hour is come. Glorify thy Son, that thy Son may glorify thee.

17:2. As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he may give eternal life to all whom thou hast given him.

17:3. Now this is eternal life: That they may know thee, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.

17:4. I have glorified thee on the earth; I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do.

17:5. And now glorify thou me, O Father, with thyself, with the glory which I had, before the world was, with thee.

17:6. I have manifested thy name to the men whom thou hast given me out of the world. Thine they were: and to me thou gavest them. And they have kept thy word.

17:7. Now they have known that all things which thou hast given me are from thee:

17:8. Because the words which thou gavest me, I have given to them. And they have received them and have known in very deed that I came out from thee: and they have believed that thou didst send me.

17:9. I pray for them. I pray not for the world, but for them whom thou hast given me: because they are thine.

17:10. And all my things are thine, and thine are mine: and I am glorified in them.

17:11. And now I am not in the world, and these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep them in thy name whom thou hast given me: that they may be one, as we also are.

17:12. While I was with them, I kept them in thy name. Those whom thou gavest me have I kept: and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition: that the scripture may be fulfilled.

17:13. And now I come to thee: and these things I speak in the world, that they may have my joy filled in themselves.

17:14. I have given them thy word, and the world hath hated them: because they are not of the world, as I also am not of the world.

17:15. I pray not that thou shouldst take them out of the world, but that thou shouldst keep them from evil.

17:16. They are not of the world, as I also am not of the world.

17:17. Sanctify them in truth. Thy word is truth.

17:18. As thou hast sent me into the world, I also have sent them into the world.

17:19. And for them do I sanctify myself, that they also may be sanctified in truth.

17:20. And not for them only do I pray, but for them also who through their word shall believe in me.

17:21. That they all may be one, as thou, Father, in me, and I in thee; that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.

17:22. And the glory which thou hast given me, I have given to them: that, they may be one, as we also are one.

17:23. I in them, and thou in me: that they may be made perfect in one: and the world may know that thou hast sent me and hast loved them, as thou hast also loved me.

17:24. Father, I will that where I am, they also whom thou hast given me may be with me: that they may see my glory which thou hast given me, because thou hast loved me before the creation of the world.

17:25. Just Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee. And these have known that thou hast sent me.

17:26. And I have made known thy name to them and will make it known: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.
