Leviticus Chapter 2

Of offerings of flour, and firstfruits.

2:1. When any one shall offer an oblation of sacrifice to the Lord, his offering shall be of fine flour: and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense,

2:2. And shall bring it to the sons of Aaron the priests. And one of them shall take a handful of the flour and oil, and all the frankincense; and shall put it a memorial upon the altar for a most sweet savour to the Lord.

2:3. And the remnant of the sacrifice shall be Aaron's, and his sons', holy of holies of the offerings of the Lord.

2:4. But when thou offerest a sacrifice baked in the oven of flour, to wit, loaves without leaven, tempered with oil, and unleavened wafers, anointed with oil:

2:5. If thy oblation be from the fryingpan, of flour tempered with oil, and without leaven: 2:6. Thou shalt divide it into little pieces, and shalt pour oil upon it.

2:7. And if the sacrifice be from the gridiron, in like manner the flour shall be tempered with oil.

2:8. And when thou offerest it to the Lord, thou shalt deliver it to the hands of the priest.

2:9. And when he hath offered it, he shall take a memorial out of the sacrifice, and burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour to the Lord.

2:10. And whatsoever is left, shall be Aaron's, and his sons': holy of holies of the offerings of the Lord.

2:11. Every oblation that is offered to the Lord shall be made without leaven: neither shall any leaven or honey be burnt in the sacrifice to the Lord.

2:12. You shall offer only the firstfruits of them and gifts: but they shall not be put upon the altar, for a savour of sweetness.

2:13. Whatsoever sacrifice thou offerest, thou shalt season it with salt: neither shalt thou take away the salt of the covenant of thy God from thy sacrifice. In all thy oblations thou shalt offer salt.

2:14. But if thou offer a gift of the firstfruits of thy corn to the Lord, of the ears yet green, thou shalt dry it at the fire, and break it small like meal; and so shalt thou offer thy firstfruits to the Lord:

2:15. Pouring oil upon it and putting on frankincense, because it is the oblation of the Lord.

2:16. Whereof the priest shall burn for a memorial of the gift, part of the corn broken small and of the oil, and all the frankincense.
