Mark Chapter 7

Christ rebukes the Pharisees. He heals the daughter of the woman of Chanaan; and the man that was deaf and dumb.

7:1. And there assembled together unto him the Pharisees and some of the scribes, coming from Jerusalem.

7:2. And when they had seen some of his disciples eat bread with common, that is, with unwashed hands, they found fault.

7:3. For the Pharisees and all the Jews eat not without often washing their hands, holding the tradition of the ancients.

7:4. And when they come from the market, unless they be washed, they eat not: and many other things there are that have been delivered to them to observe, the washings of cups and of pots and of brazen vessels and of beds.

7:5. And the Pharisees and scribes asked him: Why do not thy disciples walk according to the tradition of the ancients, but they eat bread with common hands?

7:6. But he answering, said to them: Well did Isaias prophesy of you hypocrites, as it is written: This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.

7:7. And in vain do they worship me, teaching doctrines and precepts of men.

7:8. For leaving the commandment of God, you hold the tradition of men, the washing of pots and of cups: and many other things you do like to these.

7:9. And he said to them: Well do you make void the commandment of God, that you may keep your own tradition.

7:10. For Moses said: Honour thy father and thy mother. And He that shall curse father or mother, dying let him die.

7:11. But you say: If a man shall say to his father or mother, Corban (which is a gift) whatsoever is from me shall profit thee.

7:12. And further you suffer him not to do any thing for his father or mother,

7:13. Making void the word of God by your own tradition, which you have given forth. And many other such like things you do.

7:14. And calling again the multitude unto him, he said to them: Hear ye me all and understand.

7:15. There is nothing from without a man that entering into him can defile him. But the things which come from a man, those are they that defile a man.

7:16. If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

7:17. And when he was come into the house from the multitude, his disciples asked him the parable.

7:18. And he saith to them: So are you also without knowledge? Understand you not that every thing from without entering into a man cannot defile him:

7:19. Because it entereth not into his heart but goeth into his belly and goeth out into the privy, purging all meats?

7:20. But he said that the things which come out from a man, they defile a man.

7:21. For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,

7:22. Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness.

7:23. All these evil things come from within and defile a man.

7:24. And rising from thence he went into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon: and entering into a house, he would that no man should know it. And he could not be hid.

7:25. For a woman as soon as she heard of him, whose daughter had an unclean spirit, came in and fell down at his feet.

7:26. For the woman was a Gentile, a Syrophenician born. And she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter.

7:27. Who said to her: suffer first the children to be filled: for it is not good to take the bread of the children and cast it to the dogs.

7:28. But she answered and said to him: Yea, Lord; for the whelps also eat under the table of the crumbs of the children.

7:29. And he said to her: For this saying, go thy way. The devil is gone out of thy daughter.

7:30. And when she was come into her house, she found the girl lying upon the bed and that the devil was gone out.

7:31. And again going out of the coasts of Tyre, he came by Sidon to the sea of Galilee, through the midst the of the coasts of Decapolis.

7:32. And they bring to him one deaf and dumb: and they besought him that he would lay his hand upon him.

7:33. And taking him from the multitude apart, he put his fingers into his ears: and spitting, he touched his tongue.

7:34. And looking up to heaven, he groaned and said to him: Ephpheta, which is, Be thou opened.

7:35. And immediately his ears were opened and the string of his tongue was loosed and he spoke right.

7:36. And he charged them that they should tell no man. But the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal did they publish it.

7:37. And so much the more did they wonder, saying: He hath done all things well. He hath made both the deaf to hear and the dumb to speak.
