Mark Chapter 16

Christ's resurrection and ascension.

16:1. And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalen and Mary the mother of James and Salome bought sweet spices, that coming, they might anoint Jesus.

16:2. And very early in the morning, the first day of the week, they come to the sepulchre, the sun being now risen.

16:3. And they said one to another: Who shall roll us back the stone from the door of the sepulchre?

16:4. And looking, they saw the stone rolled back. For it was very great.

16:5. And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed with a white robe: and they were astonished.

16:6. Who saith to them: Be not affrighted, you seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen: he is not here.  Behold the place where they laid him.

16:7. But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee. There you shall see him, as he told you.

16:8. But they going out, fled from the sepulchre: for a trembling and fear had seized them. And they said nothing to any man: for they were afraid.

16:9. But he rising early the first day of the week, appeared first to Mary Magdalen; out of whom he had cast seven devils.

16:10. She went and told them that had been with him, who were mourning and weeping.

16:11. And they hearing that he was alive and had been seen by her, did not believe.

16:12. And after that he appeared in another shape to two of them walking, as they were going into the country.

16:13. And they going told it to the rest: neither did they believe them.

16:14. At length he appeared to the eleven as they were at table: and he upbraided them with their incredulity and hardness of heart, because they did not believe them who had seen him after he was risen again.

16:15. And he said to them: Go ye into the whole world and preach the gospel to every creature.

16:16. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved: but he that believeth not shall he condemned.

16:17. And these signs shall follow them that believe: In my name they shall cast out devils. They shall speak with new tongues.

16:18. They shall take up serpents: and if they shall drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them. They shall lay their hand upon the sick: and they shall recover.

16:19. And the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them, was taken up into heaven and sitteth on the right hand of God.

16:20. But they going forth preached every where: the Lord working withal, and confirming the word with signs that followed.
