Matthew Chapter 3

The preaching of John: Christ is baptized.

3:1. And in those days cometh John the Baptist preaching in the desert of Judea.

3:2. And saying: Do penance: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

3:3. For this is he that was spoken of by Isaias the prophet, saying: A voice of one crying in the desert, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight his paths.

3:4. And the same John had his garment of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins: and his meat was locusts and wild honey.

3:5. Then went out to him Jerusalem and all Judea, and all the country about Jordan:

3:6. And were baptized by him in the Jordan, confessing their sins.

3:7. And seeing many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them: Ye brood of vipers, who hath shewed you to flee from the wrath to come?

3:8. Bring forth therefore fruit worthy of penance.

3:9. And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham for our father. For I tell you that God is able of these stones to raise up children to Abraham.

3:10. For now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree therefore that doth not yield good fruit, shall be cut down, and cast into the fire.

3:11. I indeed baptize you in water unto penance, but he that shall come after me, is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you in the Holy Ghost and fire.

3:12. Whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly cleanse his floor and gather his wheat into the barn; but the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire.

3:13. Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to the Jordan, unto John, to be baptized by him.

3:14. But John stayed him, saying: I ought to be baptized by thee, and comest thou to me?

3:15. And Jesus answering, said to him: Suffer it to be so now.  For so it becometh us to fulfil all justice. Then he suffered him.

3:16. And Jesus being baptized, forthwith came out of the water: and lo, the heavens were opened to him: and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove, and coming upon him.

3:17. And behold a voice from heaven saying: This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.
