Numbers Chapter 29

Sacrifices for the festivals of the seventh month.

29:1. The first day also of the seventh month shall be venerable and holy unto you; you shall do no servile work therein, because it is the day of the sounding and of trumpets.

29:2. And you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, one calf of the herd, one ram and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish.

29:3. And for their sacrifices, three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, two tenths to a ram,

29:4. One tenth to a lamb, which in all are seven lambs:

29:5. And a buck goat for sin, which is offered for the expiation of the people,

29:6. Besides the holocaust of the first day of the month with the sacrifices thereof, and the perpetual holocaust with the accustomed libations. With the same ceremonies you shall offer a burnt sacrifice for a most sweet odour to the Lord.

29:7. The tenth day also of this seventh month shall be holy and venerable unto you, and you shall afflict your souls; you shall do no servile work therein.

29:8. And you shall offer a holocaust to the Lord for a most sweet odour, one calf of the herd, one ram, and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:9. And for their sacrifices, three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, two tenths to a ram,

29:10. The tenth of a tenth to every lamb, which are in all seven lambs:

29:11. And a buck goat for sin, besides the things that are wont to be offered for sin, for expiation, and for the perpetual holocaust with their sacrifice and libations.

29:12. And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month, which shall be unto you holy and venerable, you shall do no servile work, but shall celebrate a solemnity to the Lord seven days.

29:13. And you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, thirteen calves of the herd, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:14. And for their libations three tenths of flour tempered with oil to every calf, being in all thirteen calves: and two tenths to each ram, being two rams,

29:15. And the tenth of a tenth to every lamb, being in all fourteen lambs:

29:16. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:17. On the second day you shall offer twelve calves of the herd, two rams and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:18. And the sacrifices and the libations for every one, for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall duly celebrate:

29:19. And a buck goat for a sin offering besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:20. The third day you shall offer eleven calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:21. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall offer according to the rite:

29:22. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice, and the libation thereof.

29:23. The fourth day you shall offer ten calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:24. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate in right manner:

29:25. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:26. The fifth day you shall offer nine calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:27. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:

29:28. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:29. The sixth day you shall offer eight calves, two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:30. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:

29:31. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:32. The seventh day you shall offer seven calves and two rams, and fourteen lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:33. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:

29:34. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:35. On the eighth day, which is most solemn, you shall do no servile work:

29:36. But you shall offer a holocaust for a most sweet odour to the Lord, one calf, one ram, and seven lambs of a year old, without blemish:

29:37. And the sacrifices and the libations of every one for the calves and for the rams and for the lambs you shall celebrate according to the rite:

29:38. And a buck goat for sin, besides the perpetual holocaust, and the sacrifice and the libation thereof.

29:39. These things shall you offer to the Lord in your solemnities: besides your vows and voluntary oblations for holocaust, for sacrifice, for libation, and for victims of peace offerings.
