Philippians Chapter 1

The apostle's affection for the Philippians.

1:1. Paul and Timothy, the servants of Jesus Christ: to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons.

1:2. Grace be unto you and peace, from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3. I give thanks to my God in every remembrance of you:

1:4. Always in all my prayers making supplication for you all with joy:

1:5. For your communication in the gospel of Christ, from the first day unto now.

1:6. Being confident of this very thing: that he who hath begun a good work in you will perfect it unto the day of Christ Jesus.

1:7. As it is meet for me to think this for you all, for that I have you in my heart; and that, in my bands and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of my joy.

1:8. For God is my witness how I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.

1:9. And this I pray: That your charity may more and more abound in knowledge and in all understanding:

1:10. That you may approve the better things: that you may be sincere and without offence unto the day of Christ:

1:11. Filled with the fruit of justice, through Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.

1:12. Now, brethren, I desire you should know that the things which have happened to me have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel:

1:13. So that my bands are made manifest in Christ, in all the court and in all other places.

1:14. And many of the brethren in the Lord, growing confident by my bands, are much more bold to speak the word of God without fear.

1:15. Some indeed, even out of envy and contention: but some also for good will preach Christ.

1:16. Some out of charity, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.

1:17. And some out of contention preach Christ not sincerely: supposing that they raise affliction to my bands.

1:18. But what then? So that by all means, whether by occasion or by truth, Christ be preached: in this also I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.

1:19. For I know that this shall fall out to me unto salvation, through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,

1:20. According to my expectation and hope; that in nothing I shall be confounded: but with all confidence, as always, so now also, shall Christ be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death.

1:21. For to me, to live is Christ: and to die is gain.

1:22. And if to live in the flesh: this is to me the fruit of labour. And what I shall choose I know not.

1:23. But I am straitened between two: having a desire to be dissolved and to be with Christ, a thing by far the better.

1:24. But to abide still in the flesh is needful for you.

1:25. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all, for your furtherance and joy of faith:

1:26. That your rejoicing may abound in Christ Jesus for me, by my coming to you again.

1:27. Only let your conversation be worthy of the gospel of Christ: that, whether I come and see you, or, being absent, may hear of you, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind labouring together for the faith of the gospel.

1:28. And in nothing be ye terrified by the adversaries: which to them is a cause of perdition, but to you of salvation, and this from God.

1:29. For unto you it is given for Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for him:

1:30. Having the same conflict as that which you have seen in me and now have heard of me.
