Philippians Chapter 2

He recommends them to unity and humility, and to work out their salvation with fear and trembling.

2:1. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of charity, if any society of the spirit, if any bowels of commiseration:

2:2. Fulfil ye my joy, that you be of one mind, having the same charity, being of one accord, agreeing in sentiment.

2:3. Let nothing be done through contention: neither by vain glory.  But in humility, let each esteem others better than themselves:

2:4. Each one not considering the things that are his own, but those that are other men's.

2:5. For let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:

2:6. Who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:

2:7. But emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being made in the likeness of men, and in habit found as a man.

2:8. He humbled himself, becoming obedient unto death, even to the death of the cross.

2:9. For which cause, God also hath exalted him and hath given him a name which is above all names:

2:10. That in the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of those that are in heaven, on earth, and under the earth:

2:11. And that every tongue should confess that the Lord Jesus Christ is in the glory of God the Father.

2:12. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, (as you have always obeyed, not as in my presence only but much more now in my absence) with fear and trembling work out your salvation.

2:13. For it is God who worketh in you, both to will and to accomplish, according to his good will.

2:14. And do ye all things without murmurings and hesitations:

2:15. That you may be blameless and sincere children of God, without reproof, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation: among whom you shine as lights in the world.

2:16. Holding forth the word of life to my glory in the day of Christ: because I have not run in vain, nor laboured in vain.

2:17. Yea, and if I be made a victim upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I rejoice and congratulate with you all.

2:18. And for the selfsame thing, do you also rejoice and congratulate with me.

2:19. And I hope in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy unto you shortly, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know the things concerning you.

2:20. For I have no man so of the same mind, who with sincere affection is solicitous for you.

2:21. For all seek the things that are their own not the things that are Jesus Christ's.

2:22. Now know ye the proof of him: that as a son with the father, so hath he served with me in the gospel.

2:23. Him therefore I hope to send unto you immediately: so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.

2:24. And I trust in the Lord that I myself also shall come to you shortly.

2:25. But I have thought it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow labourer and fellow soldier, but your apostle: and he that hath ministered to my wants.

2:26. For indeed he longed after you all: and was sad, for that you had heard that he was sick.

2:27. For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him. And not only on him, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.

2:28. Therefore, I sent him the more speedily: that seeing him again, you may rejoice, and I may be without sorrow.

2:29. Receive him therefore with all joy in the Lord: and treat with honour such as he is.

2:30. Because for the work of Christ he came to the point of death: delivering his life, that he might fulfil that which on your part was wanting towards my service.
