Proverbs Chapter 8

The preaching of wisdom. Her excellence.

8:1. Doth not wisdom cry aloud, and prudence put forth her voice?

8:2. Standing in the top of the highest places by the way, in the midst of the paths,

8:3. Beside the gates of the city, in the very doors she speaketh, saying:

8:4. O ye men, to you I call, and my voice is to the sons of men.

8:5. O little ones understand subtlety, and ye unwise, take notice.

8:6. Hear, for I will speak of great things: and my lips shall be opened to preach right things.

8:7. My mouth shall meditate truth, and my lips shall hate wickedness.

8:8. All my words are just, there is nothing wicked, nor perverse in them.

8:9. They are right to them that understand, and just to them that find knowledge.

8:10. Receive my instruction, and not money: choose knowledge rather than gold.

8:11. For wisdom is better than all the most precious things: and whatsoever may be desired cannot be compared to it.

8:12. I, wisdom, dwell in counsel, and am present in learned thoughts.

8:13. The fear of the Lord hateth evil; I hate arrogance, and pride, and every wicked way, and a mouth with a double tongue.

8:14. Counsel and equity is mine, prudence is mine, strength is mine.

8:15. By me kings reign, and lawgivers decree just things.

8:16. By me princes rule, and the mighty decree justice.

8:17. I love them that love me: and they that in the morning early watch for me, shall find me.

8:18. With me are riches and glory, glorious riches and justice.

8:19. For my fruit is better than gold and the precious stone, and my blossoms than choice silver.

8:20. I walk in the way of justice, in the midst of the paths of judgment,

8:21. That I may enrich them that love me, and may fill their treasures.

8:22. The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his ways, before he made any thing from the beginning.

8:23. I was set up from eternity, and of old, before the earth was made.

8:24. The depths were not as yet, and I was already conceived, neither had the fountains of waters as yet sprung out.

8:25. The mountains, with their huge bulk, had not as yet been established: before the hills, I was brought forth:

8:26. He had not yet made the earth, nor the rivers, nor the poles of the world.

8:27. When he prepared the heavens, I was present: when with a certain law, and compass, he enclosed the depths:

8:28. When he established the sky above, and poised the fountains of waters:

8:29. When he compassed the sea with its bounds, and set a law to the waters that they should not pass their limits: when he balanced the foundations of the earth;

8:30. I was with him forming all things: and was delighted every day, playing before him at all times;

8:31. Playing in the world: and my delights were to be with the children of men.

8:32. Now, therefore, ye children, hear me: blessed are they that keep my ways.

8:33. Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.

8:34. Blessed is the man that heareth me, and that watcheth daily at my gates, and waiteth at the posts of my doors.

8:35. He that shall find me, shall find life, and shall have salvation from the Lord.

8:36. But he that shall sin against me shall hurt his own soul. All that hate me love death.
