Proverbs Chapter 3

An exhortation to the practice of virtue.

3:1. My son, forget not my law, and let thy heart keep my commandments.

3:2.  For they shall add to thee length of days, and years of life, and peace.

3:3. Let not mercy and truth leave thee, put them about thy neck, and write them in the tables of thy heart.

3:4. And thou shalt find grace, and good understanding before God and men.

3:5. Have confidence in the Lord with all thy heart, and lean not upon thy own prudence.

3:6. In all thy ways think on him, and he will direct thy steps.

3:7. Be not wise in thy own conceit: fear God, and depart from evil:

3:8. For it shall be health to thy navel, and moistening to thy bones.

3:9. Honour the Lord with thy substance, and give him of the first of all thy fruits;

3:10. And thy barns shall be filled with abundance, and thy presses shall run over with wine.

3:11. My son, reject not the correction of the Lord: and do not faint when thou art chastised by him:

3:12. For whom the Lord loveth, he chastiseth: and as a father in the son he pleaseth himself.

3:13. Blessed is the man that findeth wisdom, and is rich in prudence:

3:14. The purchasing thereof is better than the merchandise of silver, and her fruit than the chief and purest gold:

3:15. She is more precious than all riches: and all the things that are desired, are not to be compared to her.

3:16. Length of days is in her right hand, and in her left hand riches and glory.

3:17. Her ways are beautiful ways, and all her paths are peaceable.

3:18. She is a tree of life to them that lay hold on her: and he that shall retain her is blessed.

3:19. The Lord by wisdom hath founded the earth, hath established the heavens by prudence.

3:20. By his wisdom the depths have broken out, and the clouds grow thick with dew.

3:21. My son, let not these things depart from thy eyes: keep the law and counsel:

3:22. And there shall be life to thy soul, and grace to thy mouth.

3:23. Then shalt thou walk confidently in thy way, and thy foot shall not stumble:

3:24. If thou sleep, thou shalt not fear: thou shalt rest, and thy sleep shall be sweet.

3:25. Be not afraid of sudden fear, nor of the power of the wicked falling upon thee.

3:26. For the Lord will be at thy side, and will keep thy foot that thou be not taken.

3:27. Do not withhold him from doing good, who is able: if thou art able, do good thyself also.

3:28. Say not to thy friend: Go, and come again: and to morrow I will give to thee: when thou canst give at present.

3:29. Practise not evil against thy friend, when he hath confidence in thee.

3:30. Strive not against a man without cause, when he hath done thee no evil.

3:31. Envy not the unjust man, and do not follow his ways.

3:32. For every mocker is an abomination to the Lord, and his communication is with the simple.

3:33. Want is from the Lord in the house of the wicked: but the habitations of the just shall be blessed.

3:34. He shall scorn the scorners, and to the meek he will give grace.

3:35. The wise shall possess glory: the promotion of fools is disgrace.
