Romans Chapter 13

Lessons of obedience to superiors and mutual charity.

13:1. Let every soul be subject to higher powers. For there is no power but from God: and those that are ordained of God.

13:2. Therefore, he that resisteth the power resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist purchase to themselves damnation.

13:3. For princes are not a terror to the good work, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good: and thou shalt have praise from the same.

13:4. For he is God's minister to thee, for good. But if thou do that which is evil, fear: for he beareth not the sword in vain.  For he is God's minister: an avenger to execute wrath upon him that doth evil.

13:5. Wherefore be subject of necessity: not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake.

13:6. For therefore also you pay tribute. For they are the ministers of God, serving unto this purpose.

13:7. Render therefore to all men their dues. Tribute, to whom tribute is due: custom, to whom custom: fear, to whom fear: honour, to whom honour.

13:8. Owe no man any thing, but to love one another. For he that loveth his neighbour hath fulfilled the law.

13:9. For: Thou shalt not commit adultery: Thou shalt not kill: Thou shalt not steal: Thou shalt not bear false witness: Thou shalt not covet. And if there be any other commandment, it is comprised in this word: Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

13:10. The love of our neighbour worketh no evil. Love therefore is the fulfilling of the law.

13:11. And that, knowing the season, that it is now the hour for us to rise from sleep. For now our salvation is nearer than when we believed.

13:12. The night is passed And the day is at hand. Let us, therefore cast off the works of darkness and put on the armour of light.

13:13. Let us walk honestly, as in the day: not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and impurities, not in contention and envy.

13:14. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ: and make not provision for the flesh in its concupiscences.
