Romans Chapter 2

The Jews are censured, who make their boast of the law and keep it not. He declares who are the true Jews.

2:1. Wherefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest. For wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself. For thou dost the same things which thou judgest.

2:2. For we know that the judgment of God is, according to truth, against them that do such things.

2:3. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them who do such things and dost the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?

2:4. Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and patience and longsuffering? Knowest thou not that the benignity of God leadeth thee to penance?

2:5. But according to thy hardness and impenitent heart, thou treasurest up to thyself wrath, against the day of wrath and revelation of the just judgment of God:

2:6. Who will render to every man according to his works.

2:7. To them indeed who, according to patience in good work, seek glory and honour and incorruption, eternal life:

2:8. But to them that are contentious and who obey not the truth but give credit to iniquity, wrath and indignation.

2:9. Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man that worketh evil: of the Jew first, and also of the Greek.

2:10. But glory and honour and peace to every one that worketh good: to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.

2:11. For there is no respect of persons with God.

2:12. For whosoever have sinned without the law shall perish without the law: and whosoever have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law.

2:13. For not the hearers of the law are just before God: but the doers of the law shall be justified.

2:14. For when the Gentiles, who have not the law, do by nature those things that are of the law; these, having not the law, are a law to themselves.

2:15. Who shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness to them: and their thoughts between themselves accusing or also defending one another,

2:16. In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel.

2:17. But if thou art called a Jew and restest in the law and makest thy boast of God,

2:18. And knowest his will and approvest the more profitable things, being instructed by the law:

2:19. Art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them that are in darkness,

2:20. An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of infants, having the form of knowledge and of truth in the law.

2:21. Thou therefore, that teachest another, teachest not thyself: thou, that preachest that men should not steal, stealest.

2:22. Thou, that sayest men should not commit adultery, committest adultery: thou, that abhorrest idols, committest sacrilege:

2:23. Thou, that makest thy boast of the law, by transgression of the law dishonourest God.

2:24. (For the name of God through you is blasphemed among the Gentiles, as it is written.)

2:25. Circumcision profiteth indeed, if thou keep the law: but if thou be a transgressor of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.

2:26. If then, the uncircumcised keep the justices of the law, shall not this uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?

2:27. And shall not that which by nature is uncircumcision, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision art a transgressor of the law?

2:28. For it is not he is a Jew, who is so outwardly: nor is that circumcision which is outwardly in the flesh.

2:29. But he is a Jew that is one inwardly and the circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit not in the letter: whose praise is not of men, but of God.
