Romans Chapter 3

The advantages of the Jews. All men are sinners and none can be justified by the works of the law, but only by the grace of Christ.

3:1. What advantage then hath the Jew: or what is the profit of circumcision?

3:2. Much every way. First indeed, because the words of God were committed to them.

3:3. For what if some of them have not believed? Shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect? God forbid!

3:4. But God is true and every man a liar, as it is written: That thou mayest be justified in thy words and mayest overcome when thou art judged.

3:5. But if our injustice commend the justice of God, what shall we say? Is God unjust, who executeth wrath?

3:6. (I speak according to man.) God forbid! Otherwise how shall God judge this world?

3:7. For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie, unto his glory, why am I also yet judged as a sinner?

3:8. And not rather (as we are slandered and as some affirm that we say) let us do evil that there may come good? Whose damnation is just.

3:9. What then? Do we excel them? No, not so. For we have charged both Jews and Greeks, that they are all under sin.

3:10. As it is written: There is not any man just.

3:11. There is none that understandeth: there is none that seeketh after God.

3:12. All have turned out of the way: they are become unprofitable together: there is none that doth good, there is not so much as one.

3:13. Their throat is an open sepulchre: with their tongues they have dealt deceitfully. The venom of asps is under their lips.

3:14. Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness:

3:15. Their feet swift to shed blood:

3:16. Destruction and misery in their ways:

3:17. And the way of peace they have not known.

3:18. There is no fear of God before their eyes.

3:19. Now we know that what things soever the law speaketh, it speaketh to them that are in the law: that every mouth may be stopped and all the world may be made subject to God.

3:20. Because by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified before him. For by the law is the knowledge of sin.

3:21. But now, without the law, the justice of God is made manifest, being witnessed by the law and the prophets.

3:22. Even the justice of God, by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all, and upon all them that believe in him: for there is no distinction.

3:23. For all have sinned and do need the glory of God.

3:24. Being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus,

3:25. Whom God hath proposed to be a propitiation, through faith in his blood, to the shewing of his justice, for the remission of former sins,

3:26. Through the forbearance of God, for the shewing of his justice in this time: that he himself may be just and the justifier of him who is of the faith of Jesus Christ.

3:27. Where is then thy boasting? It is excluded. By what law?  Of works? No, but by the law of faith.

3:28. For we account a man to be justified by faith, without the works of the law.

3:29. Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? yes, of the Gentiles also.

3:30. For it is one God that justifieth circumcision by faith and uncircumcision through faith.

3:31. Do we then, destroy the law through faith? God forbid! But we establish the law.
