Romans Chapter 4

Abraham was not justified by works done, as of himself, but by grace and by faith. And that before he was circumcised. Gentiles, by faith, are his children.

4:1. What shall we say then that Abraham hath found, who is our father according to the flesh?

4:2. For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory, but not before God.

4:3. For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God: and it was reputed to him unto justice.

4:4. Now to him that worketh, the reward is not reckoned according to grace but according to debt.

4:5. But to him that worketh not, yet believeth in him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is reputed to justice, according to the purpose of the grace of God.

4:6. As David also termeth the blessedness of a man to whom God reputeth justice without works:

4:7. Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven: and whose sins are covered.

4:8. Blessed is the man to whom the Lord hath not imputed sin.

4:9. This blessedness then, doth it remain in the circumcision only or in the uncircumcision also? For we say that unto Abraham faith was reputed to justice.

4:10. How then was it reputed? When he was in circumcision or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.

4:11. And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the justice of the faith which he had, being uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, being uncircumcised: that unto them also it may be reputed to justice:

4:12. And he might be the father of circumcision; not to them only that are of the circumcision, but to them also that follow the steps of the faith that is in the uncircumcision of our father Abraham.

4:13. For not through the law was the promise to Abraham or to his seed, that he should be heir of the world: but through the justice of faith.

4:14. For if they who are of the law be heirs, faith is made void: the promise is made of no effect.

4:15. For the law worketh wrath. For where there is no law, neither is there transgression.

4:16. Therefore is it of faith, that according to grace the promise might be firm to all the seed: not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all,

4:17. (As it is written: I have made thee a father of many nations), before God, whom he believed: who quickeneth the dead and calleth those things that are not, as those that are.

4:18. Who against hope believed in hope; that he might be made the father of many nations, according to that which was said to him: So shall thy seed be.

4:19. And he was not weak in faith. Neither did he consider his own body, now dead (whereas he was almost an hundred years old), nor the dead womb of Sara.

4:20. In the promise also of God he staggered not by distrust: but was strengthened in faith, giving glory to God:

4:21. Most fully knowing that whatsoever he has promised, he is able also to perform.

4:22. And therefore it was reputed to him unto justice.

4:23. Now it is not written only for him that it was reputed to him unto justice,

4:24. But also for us, to whom it shall be reputed, if we believe in him that raised up Jesus Christ, our Lord, from the dead,

4:25. Who was delivered up for our sins and rose again for our justification.
