Romans Chapter 15

He exhorts them to be all of one mind and promises to come and see them.

15:1. Now, we that are stronger ought to bear the infirmities of the weak and not to please ourselves.

15:2. Let every one of you Please his neighbour unto good, to edification.

15:3. For Christ did not please himself: but, as it is written: The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell upon me.

15:4. For what things soever were written were written for our learning: that, through patience and the comfort of the scriptures, we might have hope.

15:5. Now the God of patience and of comfort grant you to be of one mind, one towards another, according to Jesus Christ:

15:6. That with one mind and with one mouth you may glorify God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:7. Wherefore, receive one another, as Christ also hath received you, unto the honour of God.

15:8. For I say that Christ Jesus was minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:

15:9. But that the Gentiles are to glorify God for his mercy, as it is written: Therefore will I confess to thee, O Lord, among the Gentiles and will sing to thy name.

15:10. And again he saith: rejoice ye Gentiles, with his people.

15:11. And again: praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles: and magnify him, all ye people.

15:12. And again, Isaias saith: There shall be a root of Jesse; and he that shall rise up to rule the Gentiles, in him the Gentiles shall hope.

15:13. Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing: that you may abound in hope and in the power of the Holy Ghost.

15:14. And I myself also, my brethren, am assured of you that you also are full of love, replenished with all knowledge, so that you are able to admonish one another.

15:15. But I have written to you, brethren, more boldly in some sort, as it were putting you in mind, because of the grace which is given me from God,

15:16. That I should be the minister of Christ Jesus among the Gentiles: sanctifying the gospel of God, that the oblation of the Gentiles may be made acceptable and sanctified in the Holy Ghost.

15:17. I have therefore glory in Christ Jesus towards God.

15:18. For I dare not to speak of any of those things which Christ worketh not by me, for the obedience of the Gentiles, by word and deed,

15:19. By the virtue of signs and wonders, in the power of the Holy Ghost, so that from Jerusalem round about, as far as unto Illyricum, I have replenished the gospel of Christ.

15:20. And I have so preached this gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man a foundation.

15:21. But as it is written: They to whom he was not spoken of shall see: and they that have not heard shall understand.

15:22. For which cause also, I was hindered very much from coming to you and have been kept away till now.

15:23. But now, having no more place in these countries and having a great desire these many years past to come unto you,

15:24. When I shall begin to take my journey into Spain, I hope that, as I pass, I shall see you and be brought on my way thither by you: if first, in part, I shall have enjoyed you.

15:25. But now I shall go to Jerusalem, to minister unto the saints.

15:26. For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a contribution for the poor of the saints that are in Jerusalem.

15:27. For it hath pleased them: and they are their debtors. For, if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, they ought also in carnal things to minister to them.

15:28. When therefore I shall have accomplished this and consigned to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.

15:29. And I know that when I come to you I shall come in the abundance of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.

15:30. I beseech you therefore, brethren, through our Lord Jesus Christ and by the charity of the Holy Ghost, that you help me in your prayers for me to God,

15:31. That I may be delivered from the unbelievers that are in Judea and that the oblation of my service may be acceptable in Jerusalem to the saints.

15:32. That I may come to you with joy, by the will of God, and may be refreshed with you.

15:33. Now the God of peace be with, you all. Amen.
