Tobias Chapter 5

Young Tobias seeking a guide for his journey, the angel Raphael, in shape of a man, undertaketh this office.

5:1. Then Tobias answered his father, and said: I will do all things, father, which thou hast commanded me.

5:2. But how I shall get this money, I cannot tell; he knoweth not me, and I know not him: what token shall I give him? nor did I ever know the way which leadeth thither.

5:3. Then his father answered him, and said: I have a note of his hand with me, which when thou shalt shew him, he will presently pay it.

5:4. But go now, and seek thee out some faithful man, to go with thee for his hire: that thou mayst receive it, while I yet live.

5:5. Then Tobias going forth, found a beautiful young man, standing girded, and as it were ready to walk.

5:6. And not knowing that he was an angel of God, he saluted him, and said: From whence art thou, good young man?

5:7. But he answered: Of the children of Israel. And Tobias said to him: Knowest thou the way that leadeth to the country of the Medes?

5:8. And he answered: I know it: and I have often walked through all the ways thereof, and I have abode with Gabelus our brother, who dwelleth at Rages a city of the Medes, which is situate in the mount of Ecbatana.

5:9. And Tobias said to him: Stay for me, I beseech thee, till I tell these same things to my father.

5:10. Then Tobias going in told all these things to his father. Upon which his father being in admiration, desired that he would come in unto him.

5:11. So going in he saluted him, and said: Joy be to thee always.

5:12. And Tobias said: What manner of joy shall be to me, who sit in darkness and see not the light of heaven?

5:13. And the young man said to him: Be of good courage, thy cure from God is at hand.

5:14. And Tobias said to him: Canst thou conduct my son to Gabelus at Rages, a city of the Medes? and when thou shalt return, I will pay thee thy hire.

5:15. And the angel said to him: I will conduct him thither, and bring him back to thee.

5:16. And Tobias said to him: I pray thee, tell me, of what family, or what tribe art thou?

5:17. And Raphael the angel answered: Dost thou seek the family of him thou hirest, or the hired servant himself to go with thy son?

5:18. But lest I should make thee uneasy, I am Azarias the son of the great Ananias.

5:19. And Tobias answered: Thou art of a great family. But I pray thee be not angry that I desired to know thy family.

5:20. And the angel said to him: I will lead thy son safe, and bring him to thee again safe.

5:21. And Tobias answering, said: May you have a good journey, and God be with you in your way, and his angel accompany you.

5:22. Then all things being ready, that were to be carried in their journey, Tobias bade his father and his mother farewell, and they set out both together.

5:23. And when they were departed, his mother began to weep, and to say: Thou hast taken the staff of our old age, and sent him away from us.

5:24. I wish the money for which thou hast sent him, had never been.

5:25. For our poverty was sufficient for us, that we might account it as riches, that we saw our son.

5:26. And Tobias said to her: Weep not, our son will arrive thither safe, and will return safe to us, and thy eyes shall see him.

5:27. For I believe that the good angel of God doth accompany him, and doth order all things well that are done about him, so that he shall return to us with joy.

5:28. At these words his mother ceased weeping, and held her peace.
