Wisdom Chapter 7

The excellence of wisdom: how she is to be found.

7:1. I myself am a mortal man, like all others, and of the race of him, that was first made of the earth, and in the womb of my mother I was fashioned to be flesh.

7:2. In the time of ten months I was compacted in blood, of the seed of man, and the pleasure of sleep concurring.

7:3. And being born, I drew in the common air, and fell upon the earth, that is made alike, and the first voice which I uttered was crying, as all others do.

7:4. I was nursed in swaddling clothes, and with great cares.

7:5. For none of the kings had any other beginning of birth.

7:6. For all men have one entrance into life, and the like going out.

7:7. Wherefore I wished, and understanding was given me: and I called upon God, and the spirit of wisdom came upon me:

7:8. And I preferred her before kingdoms and thrones, and esteemed riches nothing in comparison of her.

7:9. Neither did I compare unto her any precious stone: for all gold, in comparison of her, is as a little sand; and silver, in respect to her, shall be counted as clay.

7:10. I loved her above health and beauty, and chose to have her instead of light: for her light cannot be put out.

7:11. Now all good things came to me together with her, and innumerable riches through her hands,

7:12. And I rejoiced in all these: for this wisdom went before me, and I knew not that she was the mother of them all.

7:13. Which I have learned without guile, and communicate without envy, and her riches I hide not.

7:14. For she is an infinite treasure to men: which they that use, become the friends of God, being commended for the gifts of discipline.

7:15. And God hath given to me to speak as I would, and to conceive thoughts worthy of those things that are given me: because he is the guide of wisdom, and the director of the wise:

7:16. For in his hand are both we, and our words, and all wisdom, and the knowledge and skill of works.

7:17. For he hath given me the true knowledge of the things that are: to know the disposition of the whole world, and the virtues of the elements,

7:18. The beginning, and ending, and midst of the times, the alterations of their courses, and the changes of seasons,

7:19. The revolutions of the year, and the dispositions of the stars,

7:20. The natures of living creatures, and rage of wild beasts, the force of winds, and reasonings of men, the diversities of plants, and the virtues of roots,

7:21. And all such things as are hid, and not foreseen, I have learned: for wisdom, which is the worker of all things, taught me.

7:22. For in her is the spirit of understanding; holy, one, manifold, subtile, eloquent, active, undefiled, sure, sweet, loving that which is good, quick, which nothing hindereth, beneficent,

7:23. Gentle, kind, steadfast, assured, secure, having all power, overseeing all things, and containing all spirits: intelligible, pure, subtile:

7:24. For wisdom is more active than all active things; and reacheth everywhere, by reason of her purity.

7:25. For she is a vapour of the power of God, and a certain pure emmanation of the glory of the Almighty God: and therefore no defiled thing cometh into her.

7:26. For she is the brightness of eternal light, and the unspotted mirror of God's majesty, and the image of his goodness.

7:27. And being but one, she can do all things: and remaining in herself the same, she reneweth all things, and through nations conveyeth herself into holy souls, she maketh the friends of God and prophets.

7:28. For God loveth none but him that dwelleth with wisdom.

7:29. For she is more beautiful than the sun, and above all the order of the stars: being compared with the light, she is found before it.

7:30. For after this cometh night, but no evil can overcome wisdom.
