Wisdom Chapter 4

The difference between the chaste and the adulterous generations: and between the death of the just and the wicked.

4:1. How beautiful is the chaste generation with glory: for the memory thereof is immortal: because it is known both with God and with men.

4:2. When it is present, they imitate it: and they desire it, when it hath withdrawn itself, and it triumpheth crowned for ever, winning the reward of undefiled conflicts.

4:3. But the multiplied brood of the wicked shall not thrive, and bastard slips shall not take deep root, nor any fast foundation.

4:4. And if they flourish in branches for a time, yet standing not fast, they shall be shaken with the wind, and through the force of winds they shall be rooted out.

4:5. For the branches not being perfect, shall be broken, and their fruits shall be unprofitable, and sour to eat, and fit for nothing.

4:6. For the children that are born of unlawful beds, are witnesses of wickedness against their parents in their trial.

4:7. But the just man, if he be prevented with death, shall be in rest.

4:8. For venerable old age is not that of long time, nor counted by the number of years: but the understanding of a man is grey hairs.

4:9. And a spotless life is old age.

4:10. He pleased God, and was beloved, and living among sinners, he was translated.

4:11. He was taken away, lest wickedness should alter his understanding, or deceit beguile his soul.

4:12. For the bewitching of vanity obscureth good things, and the wandering of concupiscence overturneth the innocent mind.

4:13. Being made perfect in a short space, he fulfilled a long time.

4:14. For his soul pleased God: therefore he hastened to bring him out of the midst of iniquities: but the people see this, and understand not, nor lay up such things in their hearts:

4:15. That the grace of God, and his mercy is with his saints, and that he hath respect to his chosen.

4:16. But the just that is dead, condemneth the wicked that are living, and youth soon ended, the long life of the unjust.

4:17. For they shall see the end of the wise man, and it shall not understand what God hath designed for him, and why the Lord hath set him in safety.

4:18. They shall see him, and shall despise him: but the Lord shall laugh them to scorn.

4:19. And they shall fall after this without honour, and be a reproach among the dead for ever: for he shall burst them puffed up and speechless, and shall shake them from the foundations, and they shall be utterly laid waste: they shall be in sorrow, and their memory shall perish.

4:20. They shall come with fear at the thought of their sins, and their iniquities shall stand against them to convict them.
